I do not remember my name. This is the first
thing that I think when I wake and I look
around nervously, confused by the dark and by the thick
fog which surrounds me. I raise a hand
to my face and feel a short nose and a
small mouth. I try to remember my face. I try
to remember
the color of my hair or what my eyes look
like. I try to remember anything. But I cannot. I
have
no idea who I am. I am on the ground,
lying on cold grass which is wet from the fog.
And I am alone. Why am I here? I ask
myself. But I have no answer. I do not even
know where
this is because the fog is so thick that I
can only see for a few meters in any direction.
I try to stand but then I realize that my
head hurts and that there's a sharp pain behind my
right ear. I carefully lift my hand and touch the
large lump which is there. It hurts to touch
and I shout in the fog, the sound lost in
the dark of the night. When I pull my fingers
away
they are wet and even with no light the blood
is bright and easy to see. I begin to feel
more
than nervous now. I begin to feel scared. I imagine
I can see shapes and figures in the fog
and I want to run. I feel that I need
to run, that there is somewhere I must be,
somewhere I must remember. But before I move I need
to know something. So I push myself up and
sit on the ground. I look carefully at my clothes.
But they mean nothing. The jeans are new.
But now they're dirty. Muddy stains cover the legs from
the wet grass.
The t-shirt is not familiar either, just simple and
black. So I empty my pockets and at first
there is nothing helpful there, no wallet, no keys and
no phone. But then I see the picture
and I stop. It's a woman and even in the
dark and the fog I recognize her.
Her long blonde hair is beautiful and her kind friendly
blue eyes are perfect.
Yes, I know her. And the thought is so strong
that I smile despite the pain in the back of
my head.
But what's her name? I pull the last item from
my pocket. It's a red serviette with a single
I say quietly into the fog and the sound of
my voice seems strange and cold.
Catherine, I am sure that I know her. But I
still do not remember why. Is she my wife? My
girlfriend? I think that she is. And I suddenly feel
afraid for her.
Catherine, I shout into the dark. But there is no
reply. I'm about to shout again when suddenly
I remember something. I remember Catherine's face.
But she's not smiling like she is in the picture
and her blue eyes look scared and desperate.
I try to remember the image and I see that
there's a piece of cloth in her mouth
so that she cannot speak and that she's tied to
a large grey stone by thick white ropes.
No! I cry out and I push myself to my
feet to spite the pain in my head.
I do not know what to do for a moment.
I only know that I must find her. That I
must help her.
I think about the lump on the back of my
head and the fresh blood on my fingers.
Is there somebody in the fog? Somebody who has Catherine.
Someone who wants to hurt her.
Who wants to kill her? I want to shout again.
But then I do not. If the person who has
Catherine
hears me, she is in danger. And another image comes
to me. It's the face of a man. An ordinary
face with small dark eyes and dirty brown hair. There's
nothing cruel about the face but I know
instantly that this is the man that has Catherine and
I hate that face with all of my heart.
I begin to walk slowly at first, unsure of the
direction that I must go.
It seems like the ground is moving slowly up and
I believe that this is right. The image I
remember of Catherine tied to the grey stone is in
less fog and I think that it must be on
higher
ground. I begin to walk faster but I'm soon running.
The fog surrounds me and the dark is
without end. I try not to think of anything but
the direction I'm moving in but I'm starting
to remember things now. I remember Catherine. She has a
black uniform which she always wears at
work in the restaurant and on the uniform is a
badge with her name. Hello handsome. She always
says to me. Another day at the office and I
never say much but I do not have to. We
understand
each other without words and I remember that after I
eat I wait for her in the car park until
she
finishes work and she's surprised to see me there but
I suppose that's just who I am.
A romantic. Suddenly there's a sound like a gunshot and
I fall. For a moment I think that I'm
dead and that Catherine is alone tied to the grey
stone in the fog but then I see the light
in the sky and I realize that the shot was
a flare. I watch the light fall and illuminate
the hillside. Is it the man with the dark eyes
and dirty brown hair? Does he know I'm here? Good.
If he looks for me he's not with Catherine I
think and I get up again and run faster now.
Do I hear voices in the fog behind me? I
try to turn to look but the fog behind me
is too thick
and I only see the occasional light in the distance
but in front of me the fog seems to be
thinner
and I begin to slow. I'm scared now because I
know that I'm near and in the dark I begin
to see
large grey stones standing like giants on the top of
the hill. In amazement I think that I
recognize this circle of ancient stones. Stonehenge I say. Yes
a voice replies and this is where it
ends and a tall man steps from behind one of
the silent giants. I expect him to have dark eyes
and dirty hair but he does not. His hair is
blonde, his eyes light and I think that this is
not the
man who has Catherine. Maybe he's his friend, his partner
and I'm about to run when I see the
small gun in his hand. I just want Catherine I
say but I can see the hate in the man's
eyes
and I know that the only thing I can do
now is run to the stone where I know she's
tied
and try to escape into the fog with her. Don't
says the man as if he can see my intention
in my
eyes but I have to. At first I think that
maybe I'm quick enough but then I hear the snap
of the
gun and feel the explosion in my back. For a
moment more I run and I can see the shape
of the stone
where Catherine is tied and I fall to the floor
in front of it. Catherine I shout but there is
no
reply. When I look to see why I see that
she is not there the white ropes are still tied
to
the stone but she is not. Catherine I say again
smiling because she's all that matters and I can
rest now because I know that she is safe. You
got him detective? A voice says behind me.
Yeah that's him. The tall man says. He matches the
girl's description perfectly. Dirty brown hair,
small dark eyes and look the blood behind his ear
is where she hit him before she escaped.
Good for her. Yeah we think she's his third victim
this year so why didn't he run? Why wait
here for us? The tall man is silent for a
moment. Who knows? I don't want to understand the mind
of
these psychopaths. I'm just happy. Catherine is okay. Catherine is
okay. Catherine is okay.
I do not understand anything else that they say but
I do understand these three words and I
smile again. Catherine is okay. Rob from the rich.
The sun is high above Canary Wharf, high and hot
and looking down on the crowds of people which
wait on both sides of the empty road. We are
standing there, the three of us in front of the
bank.
We are standing there in front of the glass doors
and no one is looking at us. They are all
that the race is starting soon. I look at our
reflections. We all have the same white and orange
uniforms, the same caps, the same silver sunglasses. I almost
do not recognize the two men beside me
and I think that from a distance people cannot see
that I am a woman. Okay this is it. 10
minutes
exactly. Remember your jobs and remember no real names. I'm
Robin, your little John,
one of the men says to the other. And your
Marion, he says to me, the only woman and he
gives me a
quick smile. Little John looks up. The camera is still
in position. You cannot see us enter or leave.
I feel sweat running down my neck. Here he comes.
Remember the music Marion? Robin says,
and then the guard is at the door, a short
fat man who looks at us, smiles and then opens
it
without a single question. Your quick, the air conditioning only
broke this morning.
We know, little John says. We broke it. And the
guard's smile disappears, but it's too late.
Robin pushes him back into the bank and John follows
with the ladders on his shoulders.
I can see Robin's gun appear in his hand and
then I'm inside too and I pull the door shut.
Music Marion? Robin says, there is no stopping now. So
I pull the small stereo from one of the
black bags on my shoulder and I press play. Beethoven's
piano concerto number two fills the marble
stairs. We run up the stairs together, Robin with his
gun at the guard's back. Then little John
stops to cover the first camera. He climbs up the
ladder in a second and we run into the main
room of the bank. It's a large room with oak
tables, a dark marble counter and expensive leather
sofers. Behind the counter there are two women. Out here,
now, I shout at them. To my left I see
the short fat man sit down on the floor with
his hands on his head. Then Robin runs to the
office
and kicks open the door. The two women move but
slowly. One of them looks down at the counter
where I know there is a secret alarm. Not if
you want to live. I shout, on the sofa. I
pull two
blindfolds from a bag and cover their eyes. Then I
tie their hands and I look at my watch.
Seven minutes. I shout to little John and he covers
the last camera with plastic.
I take a deep breath. The music is so loud
and the bank so hot. Can we do this? Can
we really do this?
Then Robin leaves the office and he has the manager,
Mr Charles M. Hastings. Hastings.
I hate the name and I hate the man. Tall,
arrogant, dressed in his expensive suit with a watch that
costs more than most people make in a year. What
is this? He says and he looks nervous
but not nervous enough. What do you think? Robin asks
and he tells him to sit at one of the
tables.
Hastings looks around. You can't be serious. A bank robbery.
And for a moment he looks surprised.
But then he laughs. You idiots. This is an investment
bank. There's no money here. Everything is done
by transfer. And he looks at us all like we're
children with that arrogant expression on his face.
Good Lord. You should leave now before the police get
here and maybe you can still escape.
He laughs again. But I doubt it. Little John puts
a blindfold on the guard. Only Hastings can see now.
But we stand behind him. And for a few seconds
there is only the sound of Beethoven as the music
begins to reach its moto allegro. That's okay. Robin says
and he picks up one of the bags and
puts it on the table. We brought our own money.
£20,000 in small notes. Banks are difficult to rob
but houses aren't. Even big houses with alarms and safes.
Like yours. What? Hastings says.
And then he looks at the bag. My house. My
money. You robbed my house. I can see sweat on
Hastings
face now. But it's on mine too. I look at
my watch. Four minutes. But what do you want? You
have my money.
Robin laughs. We don't want it. Not that. We're not
common thieves. And he throws the bag to little
John. Get it ready. He says. And little John takes
the ladders back down the stairs to the glass
doors. Then what? shouts Hastings. And this is my part.
I take the laptop from the bag and put it
in front of him and open it. Do you know
what this is? He looks. It's a bank account. A
transfer.
So? He says arrogantly. So we need you to enter
your details and then transfer £240,000
to this account. Do it. And then we go. And
he looks more than nervous now. He looks scared.
No, I can't. I don't have that sort of money.
I can't. I put the newspaper down on the computer.
Really? He looks at the newspaper for a moment that
says nothing.
One minute. Says little John. Read it. Robin shouts. Hastings
is silent. But Robin points the
gun at him. Read it. He shouts again. Okay. Okay.
Bank manager receives £240,000 salary despite
bank failure. He stops and tries to turn to look
at us. But Robin pulls the trigger back on the
gun.
You don't understand. Hastings shouts. It's more complicated than that.
We understand that hundreds of local businesses are in serious
trouble because of you and this
bank, I say. And you now have a decision to
make because we have no time to enter the details
or,
I say, and I know that this is it. It
has to be now. Beethoven fills the silence again.
And I look at Robin and see that there's sweat
on his face too. But Hastings does not move.
Then goodbye, Mr Hastings. Robin says. And he moves the
gun. But no, please look.
And Hastings enters his details. I do not believe it.
And I take the computer.
Well, Robin says, it's done. It's gone. Direct. No one
can trace it. Then the music stops.
And I want to smile that there is no time.
In the distance I hear the sound of a gun
and the
crowd outside cheers. Robin takes the last blindfold from the
bag and puts it over Hastings' eyes.
And what now? Hastings says. You think you can just
walk out of here? Robin laughs.
Something like that? He says quietly. The police are out
there. They'll see you. They'll stop you.
Robin then puts his mouth to Hastings' ear.
Not if there's a big enough distraction, he says.
Oh, and just to let you know, there are no
bullets in any of our guns.
Hastings starts to shout, but we do not listen. This
is it. We have to go now.
We take our uniforms off and put them in the
bag. Then we're at the doors.
Outside we hear the crowd cheer and we see the
first runners pass by.
Then there are more. Many more. Hundreds more. Thousands more.
And now we start to smile because we know we're
nearly out.
Now says Robin. And little John presses the control on
the air conditioning.
For a moment there is nothing. Then the fans start.
And then money fills the air outside. 20,000 pounds.
It flies over the heads of the crowd
into the runners and into the road. And then there
is nothing but chaos.
And no one sees us walk slowly from the bank.
And no one remembers us later.
And maybe you want to know what we plan to
do with the money. Unfortunately, this I can never tell
you.
The lock and the monster.
No darlings. She means nothing to me. Less than nothing.
I hate her.
It's only you, Emily. I promise. What? Devorce her. That's
impossible. Why?
Because of the money, the house, the cars? No, Emily,
of course. You're more important than them.
No, no, listen. Don't go. Listen to me. When I
return to London, everything is going to be different.
I have a plan, darling. Darling, I have a plan.
Emily?
But there is no answer. And Oliver Stern puts his
mobile back into his coat pocket and looks around.
There is no one near to him to hear. He
is alone on the jetty.
Apart from the boat attendant at his chair 20 meters
away, his feet on a boat and a cigarette in
his mouth.
And he cannot hear from there. Oliver is sure. But
just to be safe, he decides not to phone Emily
again.
Perhaps the less she knows the better.
A plan. Yes. He has a plan. A good plan.
And a simple plan.
He looks out across the horrible grey lock. The sun
is almost down behind the green snowy mountains
now. And it's colder than before. What sort of person
wants to have a holiday in this remote,
ugly part of the world? Then he hears the sound
of his wife's laughter from the terrace bar of the
hotel. And he shakes his head. The sort of person
like my monster of a wife. He tries to picture
Emily. Her eyes are so loving, her laugh so light
and pretty. But when his wife laughs,
she sounds like a donkey. He looks at the lock
again at the jetty and the small boats waiting
there for the tourists in the hotel. And he asks
himself once more if he can do it.
She bays again. And he knows that he can. It's
10 to 6 now. The boats stop going out at
6.
And the sun is almost gone. She needs to come
now, he knows, but he cannot shout for her.
No, it's her idea to go on a boat. Everyone
in the bar knows she wants to go.
I just need to wait for her, like a good
husband, he thinks. The type of husband who is happy
to go
out on the huge, horrible lock in the dark with
his monster of a wife. But can she still swim?
He's not sure. He thinks that with her clothes and
her coat on, she'll be too heavy and that the
cold grey water of the lock will pull her down.
But is that enough?
He looks at the bag by his feet, the romantic
picnic, filled with all the food his wife loves
and the bottle of champagne that he knows she cannot
resist. Oliver smiles. It is a heavy bag.
All he has to do is make her hold it
for a second, perhaps quickly wrap the straps around her
hands.
Then, no more monster. But it's nearly six now. The
attendant is about to finish for the night.
Excuse me? Oliver shouts with a smile. He pulls his
cigarette packet from his pocket and walks over.
Sorry to bother you, but do you have a lighter?
The attendant has a hard face and fierce red hair.
He looks at Oliver for a moment. Nods pulls his
lighter from his pocket and offers it.
Look, continues, Oliver. My wife wants to take a boat
out. She's going to be here in a second.
The man looks at the sky. A boat, man. We
want a boat.
Dinner, can I boot that? Better than Marla. The idiot
does not speak English. All of the things.
Bloody country. I'm sorry. I don't understand. I'm from England.
The man laughs, stands up and says
nothing. Oliver tries to stay calm, but he knows there's
too little time.
Don't you speak English? My wife wants to go out
now. She's only going to be one minute.
He shouts and the attendant stops and gives him a
long, hard look with his cold blue eyes.
Oliver, here I am. A loud, cheerful voice says. And
the two men turn to see Mrs. Sylvia Stern.
She smiles that stupid cow-like smile at them. And
Oliver sees the idiot attendant smile back.
She is dressed in a horrible tartan skirt and woolen
jumper. And in her arms she has the heavy
wax coat. Good. Oliver thinks. Darling, he says with a
smile. This good man wants to close. I think
we must wait until tomorrow now. Oh, no, surely not.
She turns to the man and smiles again.
Can't we just go out for a few minutes, please?
Just to enjoy the sunset.
And the attendant ignores Oliver, but returns her smile.
Aye. Well, just for a 10 minutes then. Oh, thank
you, Sylvia says. And the attendant helps them
into the small rowing boat and passes Oliver the picnic
bag. He then gives him another long,
hard look. But Oliver does not care.
Bloody idiot. He says to Sylvia as they slowly move
away from the jetty onto the dark water.
I don't understand a thing, he says. But Sylvia does
not seem to hear. And instead looks out
at the dark lock. For five minutes, Oliver rose. And
soon the jetty and the hotel look much smaller.
While the attendant is almost impossible to see in the
half light of the new evening.
And so this is it. Oliver thinks about loving ironic
Emily again. Then he looks at his monster
of a wife. Oh yes, this has to be it.
No more listening to that awful laugh. No more looking
at her boring face. And perhaps more importantly, no more
sharing his bank account with her.
Darling, he says, shall we have a little drink? Oh
yes, that would be very nice.
She smiles, but in the half light Oliver thinks he
sees something strange in her expression.
Can you pass me over the bag? Then you can
come and sit here next to me. He says as
casually
as he can. Of course. Sylvia says and she stands
up. Which makes the boat rock. Oliver thinks
that this is going to be very easy indeed. Just
one push. And then he can shout for the attendant
and pretend to help but really just watch the monster
go down into the lock. Just one look back
at the jetty to be sure no one can see,
he thinks. And he turns his head. And then it
happens.
Pain explodes at the back of his head and his
eyes go dark. For a second he does not know
where he
is. Then he feels hands on him. Pushing him and
moving him. As he tries to say something,
he sees the broken champagne bottle at his feet. Then
he falls from the boat. And the ice cold water
takes the words and the air from his mouth. For
a moment he goes down, but then he kicks his
legs
and he comes to the surface and looks up at
Sylvia in the boat. She has an oar in her
hands and
she's reaching it out to him. Yes, closer, help me.
He shouts and it's then that he sees the strange
expression in her face again. Sylvia, darling, don't you dare
call me that. She says in a tone
as cold as the water. You're a cheating, lying, horrible
monster of a man. You can call that stupid
girl of yours, darling, but not me. Never again, Oliver
Stern, never again. And then the oar hits him
on the head and he cannot think and he cannot
swim and the water takes him. For a few moments
he sinks slowly into the great lock. But then somehow,
miraculously, he kicks again and he comes
to the surface once more. Sylvia and the boat are
gone. And the half light is complete darkness now.
He tries to swim, but his clothes and his coat
are too heavy. The jetty, the attendant. He has
to still be there. If he hears me, he can
bring a boat out. Help me. He shouts into the
darkness.
Help me. For the love of God, help me. And
on the small jetty on the bank of Loch Ness,
the attendant hears. He takes the cigarette from his mouth
and smiles.
Sorry, ladie. He says quietly to the lock. I can't
understand the word you're seeing.
Follow me.
Follow me. Says Detective Branwell with a sigh. His shift
finishes in five minutes,
but there's no one around in Howarth's quiet police station.
And so he leads the woman to the
first interview room and tries to suppress the image of
a pint of beer in the black bull pub.
The interview room is cold, the light's weak and gray.
But he offers the woman a seat and hopes
that this will be quick. As she takes her coat
off, Branwell watches her. She has long brown hair
that right now looks a little untidy. And she has
deep green eyes that at the moment are tired and
nervous and shows something which he does not completely recognize.
Right, he says, and tries to smile to relax her.
What's all this about then?
The officer at the front desk says you need to
speak to someone.
I do, she says, and her voice is thin and
tense. About what? She waits for a moment, uncertain,
and then she takes a breath. About a crime. Branwell
pulls his notepad from his pocket and places
it in front of him on the table. He has
a bad feeling about his pint in the black bull
pub.
I see, he says. Maybe you can tell me your
name first. You're addressed too.
She puts her hands on the table and he sees
that her red fingernails are chipped and bitten.
Jane Thornton, I live at brow top cottage. Brow top?
Oh yes, I remember. You have that little red
sports card, don't you? Not now, no. She says and
she picks up her handbag. Can I smoke? No, sorry
love, rules and regulations. I can get you a tea
if you like. But she shakes her head and puts
the
bag at her feet. And maybe you can tell me
why you're here, he suggests. Again, she waits.
And again, Branwell thinks that he sees something in her
deep green eyes.
There's a man who follows me. She begins. Every evening.
Every evening when I return home from work.
Branwell nods. I see. No, you don't. Every evening. Every
single evening. For almost a year now,
he's always there detective. Sometimes he's so close that I
think he can touch me and other
times he's far away. But I still know that he's
there. And detective, you might think that I'm crazy,
but I know what this man wants. What? Branwell says.
What does he want?
She pauses for a second and he sees her hands
shake. He wants to kill me.
Branwell says nothing but watches the woman's face. She is
scared. Very scared. Does he speak
to you, this man? No, never. And when I try
to speak to him, me...
Yes? He disappears. Branwell opens his notebook and takes his
pen out.
Where do you work, Mrs. Thorne? Miss Thorne. I work
in Leeds. I have a small media company.
In Leeds. Then where does this man follow you from?
From the station at Keithley. You work in Leeds,
but you don't drive. I think your sports car can
get you there a lot faster than the bus to
Keithley
and then the train to Leeds. I told you, I
don't drive it. Not now. Right. So he followed you.
From Keithley. I see him at the train station sometimes.
Then he's there again when I get off the bus
in the town centre here in Arworth.
And then he follows me to my cottage. You walk
from here to brow top, up over the moors road,
every evening. That's a dangerous road. And it must be
more than three miles.
Dangerous, yes. But she does not say anything else and
Branwell continues.
Can you describe the man?
Easily, she says. But again she pauses and Branwell sees
her turn quickly to look over her shoulder.
His tall with dark hair, his skin is pale and
his eyes cold.
Dead, she says. He has dead eyes. And they watch
me every day and I think that they watch me
at night too.
Branwell feels a shiver run over his back. You think
that this man enters your premises.
That he enters your cottage during the night. I do.
Sometimes I wake and I know that he's there.
I turn on the lights and I see nothing but
when I go to the windows I can see him
in the field.
He stands there like a scarecrow in the dark and
he accuses me every day.
His cold dead eyes accuse me. Branwell shakes his head.
Is she crazy or just terrified?
Miss Thorne, if this man enters your house we can
arrest him. But to do that we need evidence.
As he broke in a window or entered the property
by force she lets out a laugh, a laugh that
is
horrible to Branwell. No. Of course not. There's nothing. And
he never says anything threatening.
He never says that he wants to hurt you. She
looks over her shoulder again quickly and
automatically as if she does it a hundred times a
day. No. He never says a thing.
But I know. I know what he wants. I know
what he wants. And she begins to cry.
Branwell puts the notepad away. I'm sorry Miss Thorne but
there's very little that we can do.
Let me make you that tea. A nice tea to
calm you down. Let me can start again and see
if there
are any other details. She seems to nod and he
stands up and goes to the door. We need a
better
description you see if we want to identify the man.
What? She says before he can open the door.
Oh no no. You don't understand the detective. I know
who the man is. I know his name. I know
everything. Branwell stops. You mean? She continues. And if I
tell you his name you can help me.
You can stop this. She says desperately. You know his
name. Do you promise? You can stop it.
Branwell does not sit. He sees that expression in her
eyes again. I can't promise love. No.
But I can try. She nods and bites her red
fingernails for a moment. His name is William Gray.
William Gray. Branwell knows the name. William Gray. And he
remembers something horrible from
more than a year ago. An accident on the roads
across the moors. William Gray. A local cyclist
and a good man. William Gray. Miss Thornton. William Gray
is dead. He was it by a car last year
while he cycled across brow top road. We never found
the driver but William died instantly they say.
Oh I know. She says and he sees that something
in her deep green eyes. And he thinks that he
knows
what it is now. I know detective because I am
that driver. Then there is only the sound of
her crying to fill the cold interview room. And Branwell
sits down again and picks up his pen and
notepad. I think you should tell me everything. He says
and he can see clearly now the guilt
that fills her deep green eyes. An hour later Branwell
closes the door of the interview room
and sighs. He does not feel any sympathy for her.
He cannot. Not for someone who can do that.
To leave someone on the gray moors to die. No
he cannot feel any sympathy for her. But maybe
now she can find some rest. Maybe now she can
forget the ghost of William Gray.
He walks up the corridor to the front desk and
is about to shout for an officer when he sees
the
tall figure standing at the door of the police station.
He stops. His heart suddenly beating faster.
The man's dark hair is wet from the rain outside.
His skin pale and his eyes cold and dead.
It's him. Branwell knows it. But he cannot believe it.
Do you have her confession? The figure says. What? Do
you have Miss Thornton's confession?
The figure repeats. Branwell nods. Yes I do. She's in
the interview room now. The figure nods.
Good. Then it's over. And the impossible figure turns to
leave.
Branwell still cannot believe it. Yet the similarity is perfect.
Wait Mr. Gray. William, wait. I need to ask you.
But the figure turns and smiles. It's a cold smile
but Branwell sees that the man's eyes look a little
more alive now. My name is Gray Detective but not
William. My name is Matthew. Matthew Gray.
William was my brother. He says as he opens the
door to the rain. My twin brother.
How far is far enough? Jerry pushes open the door
of the small Australian pub and steps onto the
terrace with a pint of cold beer in his hand.
Inside the pub it's small and dark and the
barman is rude and suspicious but Jerry has to agree
that the view from the terrace is more than
spectacular. Red sandy plains stretch out in almost every direction
and only to the east are their
down at one of the small wooden tables and places
his bag carefully next to his feet.
The rest of his luggage is in the pickup truck
but not this bag. No. This one stays with him.
He takes a cigarette from his packet, lights it and
lets the hot evening sun shine down on his
bald head. The outback. This is it. This is far
enough. And for the first time in a week Jerry
relaxes and lets his anxious pale face smile. You do
not steal from Big Jones and stay in London.
Everybody knows that and Jerry understands better than most people
exactly how true that is.
No. You either get out of the city for life
or Big Jones finds you. And when Big Jones finds
you,
that is when you go see the world. In little
pieces. Most people think it's just a story
but not Jerry. No. Big Jones does not just kill
you. He takes you to one of his old factories
on
the Thames and then he shows you the boxes and
the addresses of all the different locations in
the world. And then he starts to chop. Jerry feels
sweat run down his back. But he laughs and takes
a long drink of the cold beer. Well, Big Jones
cannot chop me up if he cannot find me, he
thinks.
And he looks at the bag at his feet. It
was easy to get it through customs.
They look for drugs and weapons. They do not look
for 60,000 pounds of uncut diamonds.
And he smiles and looks up at the hot sun.
Well, someone looks bloody happy.
A voice says and Jerry jumps. He looks forwards but
cannot see because of the sunlight.
Then two tall, strangely dressed men walk into the shade
of the terrace.
One with three dead rabbits in one hand and a
long rifle in the other.
G'day! says the other one. They both look similar. Messy
blonde hair and a hat that are the same
color as their khaki shorts and shirts. And they are
both dirty. Their skin, boots and clothes
all covered in red sand.
Even him? Jerry says.
Huh, a bloody palm. Says the first and drops the
rabbits on the table.
Is that right? Are you a palm mate?
A what? asks Jerry.
A palm. You know, an English bloke.
Oh, yes.
Nice one. Says the first before he disappears into the
bar.
Jerry is not sure but he thinks that the man
looked at the bag by his feet.
Are you on holiday, mate? asks the other who sits
down at the table.
Yeah. Something like that.
Yeah? Where are you staying? There are no hotels around
here.
Jerry considers lying. But Big Jones can never find him
Upper of Farmer Hobbes Creek. Oh, is that right? Me
and Darwin live near there.
It looks like we're neighbors. Darwin? Yeah, my bloody brother.
I'm Charles. He's Darwin. Here he is with the stubby's.
And the brother called Darwin comes out of the bar
with two small bottles of beer.
The palm is staying at the old Hobbes farm, Darwin.
Well, you're no worse then. Be careful up there, mate.
That's salty territory now.
And both of the brothers smile. Salty territory? What's that?
Crocs, mate. Crocodiles. There are a lot of them up
there in the creek. Best be careful.
And they laugh again. And Jerry smiles.
Yeah, sure. I'll be careful. He says and he thinks
he sees one of the brothers look at his bag
again.
Well, it's nice to meet you both but I need
to get up to the farm before dark.
Sure, mate. No worries. Says Charles.
Watch out for the salties, mate. They can chop you
up into little pieces.
Says Darwin and Jerry thinks about big Jones and the
old factory on the Thames.
I'll be okay. See you later. He says to the
brothers, then he heads for the truck.
A bloody palm. Says Charlie quietly. He seems to like
that bag very much.
Says Darwin. He sure does. You know, I don't think
he believes us about the salties.
Bloody palms never believe us about the salties.
And the brothers laugh as they watch Jerry and the
truck drive up the road to Hobbes Creek
while the great Australian sun begins to fall behind the
horizon.
It's almost dark when Jerry reaches the farm. The building
is old but in okay shape.
And he turns the generator on and the electric lights
start. For half an hour he unpacks his
things. Then he sits down on the terrace with his
bag at his feet and lights another cigarette.
The creek is 20 meters from the farmhouse and the
evening seems to be alive with insects and
birds that live in the trees near the green water.
Salties, he thinks, and he laughs. He does not
believe the brothers, not for a moment. But just to
be safe he pulls his new gun from the bag
and
checks it. Then he pulls a box from the bag,
opens it carefully and looks at the diamonds.
Beautiful, he thinks. Beautiful. And they belong to me. And
he is about to laugh again
when he hears a noise from the trees. The box
shuts in an instant and then the gun is in
his hand.
He thinks he sees a dark shape but he does
not shoot.
Who's there? He says. But there is no answer. He
picks the bag up and puts it on his shoulder.
He takes a few steps towards the trees. I've got
a gun. But there is silence.
He tries to see what the dark shape is but
the evening light is too weak. He moves a little
closer.
Maybe it's the brothers, he thinks. And he remembers the
way one of them looked at the bag.
Maybe they want to steal his bag. Well, they can
try. He raises his gun and he's about to shoot
when the dark shape moves again. And he laughs. It's
just a small crocodile. A tiny thing.
No bigger than his arm. He looks at it and
laughs again.
Well, you can't chop me in a little piece, can
you? He says to the crocodile.
And that is when he feels the knife at his
neck.
No, says a terrifyingly familiar voice. But I can, Jerry.
Drop the gun. Jerry drops it and slowly
turns. The knife still at his neck.
Big Jones. But ow. Big Jones smiles. He is tall
and extremely muscly.
His face is bearded and his eyes are full of
violence and pain. But it's his teeth, Jerry hates.
Big white teeth as sharp as crocodiles. Ow. Do you
think you can steal from me an escape?
Jerry, you know me better than that. Please, Big Jones,
I'm sorry. I have all the diamonds
right here. Can't you let me go? You won't ever
see me again, I promise. Jerry begs.
I know I won't, Jerry. Because you're going to go
on a little trip. All around the world.
And Jerry remembers the old factory on the Thames and
the boxes with the different addresses and
the story about what Big Jones does when people steal
from him.
And Jerry opens his mouth to scream. But the screen
he hears is not his own.
The scream comes from Big Jones, who suddenly lets go
of the knife. Jerry looks down and sees
the small crocodile biting Big Jones's leg. Ha! Jerry laughs
and he runs to his gun and
points it at Big Jones, who falls to the floor
and tries to kick the crocodile.
Don't move, Big Jones. Let it chop you in a
little pieces.
And Big Jones looks up at him and is about
to shout when suddenly he looks behind Jerry
and the color disappears from his face. What? Says Jerry.
And this is the last thing he ever says.
Jerry's gun fires three times into the evening light and
screams fill the creek,
but there is no escape. Soon, all is quiet again,
apart from the sound of three large
crocodiles slowly creeping back to the green water. Their big
mouths now full of dinner.
And of sixty thousand pounds of uncut diamonds.
The wrong bag. The sky is not there. In its
place are a thousand adverts on a hundred
television screens. A sea of lights that constantly move and
change. Red, white,
blue, green, orange, gold. Red, white, blue, green, orange, gold.
They never stop.
And on the television screens there are giant faces, clips
from movies, news headlines,
commercials for cars and perfume, chocolate and beer. The sounds
never stop. The horns of
the big yellow taxis, the music from the bars and
the restaurants. And the voices. So many voices.
So many that they are impossible to understand. And so
many languages. English, Spanish,
Chinese, Italian, German, Portuguese. They all mix together and are
little more than noise to
an onlooker. But the smells are the worst. One moment
it's the scent of hot dogs, onions,
tomatoes, fries or donuts. Delicious smells that make the stomach
rumble.
But then it's cigarettes, alcohol, garbage and vomit. And all
of this mixes with the sweat of
the thousands of people in one place. Jake begins to
feel sick again and looks down at his dirty
He always calls Jake Kidd. But he must be the
same age as him, 12 or 13.
It's okay. Jake says and looks up again. He has
to be stronger, he knows. He has to be more
like
Nick. You're just hungry. After we eat, you will think
this place is the best in the world.
With a full belly, you can sit and watch this
all day. It's just, well, why don't we come at
night? Isn't it better at night, Nick? How dumb are
you? His new friend says and he looks annoyed.
At night they worry. At night everyone worries in New
York. In the day when it's hot and sunny,
like today, they don't worry about anything. They just watch
those big screens take pictures,
eat and drink. They don't even look at us twice.
And Jake knows that he's right.
Look, it's easy. You do what I say, no problem.
And Nick looks at him for a moment.
You look okay now. These new clothes aren't bad. The
new clothes are not new, Jake knows. Not really.
Nick steals clothes from the washing lines on the back
streets. But they are better than the
dirty old jeans and green jacket that are now in
a bin behind the shop where they sit.
You have to look good, kid. Remember that. You have
to look like them, he says.
Then they don't worry. You can get near to them.
Be casual. Look up at the big screens.
It's good if you get a camera out and pretend
to take some snaps, you know.
Then when you get the chance, you do it. You
grab a bag. A woman's bag is the best. They
have more
things in them. But a guy's bag is easier. A
guy's bag you can just walk away with.
If you get a woman's bag, you sometimes have to
run. Jake feels really sick now.
The sun is somewhere up there above the skyscrapers of
Times Square. And the afternoon is hot.
The smells and sounds make a horrible mixture. He thinks
about home for a moment. But that is
too far away now and too long ago. You want
to eat, don't you, kid? Jake nods.
And you remember where the cameras are? The NYPD ones?
The others are nothing.
But don't let the NYPD ones see you or you're
not coming back here, not with me. Jake nods again.
So we do it now and we meet back on
9th Avenue. You got it? Nick says. They both stand
up.
But before Nick moves into the crowds, Jake stops him.
But what if someone sees me? What if they stop
me? Nick smiles.
No worries, just say it's the wrong bag. And then
he goes. And Jake is alone. He moves out into
the crowds of people. He knows where he has to
go to the red stairs. He moves slowly.
No one really sees him. No one really looks. But
he sees. He looks. He watches.
He sees kids his own age laughing and joking. He
looks at the food on the small tables in front
of the cafes and bars. He sees two policemen in
the distance and he moves the other way,
walking between families and couples, businessmen and tourists. When he
reaches the red steps,
he is hot and sweaty, hungry too. But you can't
think about that, he tells himself.
He needs to think clearly now. He needs to think
like Nick. On the red steps,
there is a group of maybe 30 Japanese tourists. They
all have a camera and are all taking photos.
But their bags are on their shoulders and there are
too many of them, he knows.
Most do not see anything, but one always sees something.
And one is enough. So who?
And then he sees the man. He looks like any
other foreign tourist. He has a camera around his neck,
sunglasses on his face and a map in his hand.
Except Jake is not sure he is a tourist.
There is something different about him. The man does not
use the camera and does not look at the
map. In fact, the man does nothing at all. Occasionally
he just looks at his watch.
But the bag is by his feet. It looks expensive,
made from black leather.
Nick calls them weekend bags. He says they are the
best. Inside them there are wallets,
phones, tablets, everything.
Okay. Okay, you can do this. Jake tells himself. He
just needs to be quick.
The man never even looks at the bag, so Jake
begins to move in his direction casually.
He looks up at the lights and the television screens.
Then he is near enough and he looks at
the man. He thinks again that he is a strange
tourist. From here Jake can see that he looks
nervous. But then the man looks to the right and
Jake knows it is his best chance. He grabs the
bag and moves away. He expects to hear a shout,
but there is nothing. So he moves into the crowds
like Nick does. He wants to run, but he walks
and notices that the bag is heavy, really heavy.
And he begins to imagine Nick's face when he sees
the bag and he already begins to imagine
the food that he can buy. But the bag is
heavy, he thinks again. So heavy. And he slows.
Maybe he should look inside, he thinks, just to make
sure. He looks around and steps into the
doorway of a shop for a moment. Then he kneels
down and opens the bag. And for a moment he
does
not understand. There is no wallet, no phone, no tablet,
no clothes. There is only.
Then he hears the man shout and he looks up
and sees his angry face running towards him through
the crowd. He has no time to think, but he
must. Can he leave the bag? Can he just run
away?
Run away? When he knows what the man is going
to do?
No. Not this time. And then he is up and
runs too and he has the bag in his hands.
For a moment he has no idea what to do
or where to go. He thinks that maybe Nick would
know that
Nick would have some advice. And then he realises that
he does know.
And you remember where the cameras are? The NYPD ones?
Yes, I remember Jake thinks. But can he get there
before the man catches him?
There is another shout from behind him, but Jake keeps
moving.
Above the crowd he can see the NYPD camera on
top of a tall post. And he pushes past the
tourists to reach it. For a moment there are people
all around him.
And he thinks he will never get there. But then
he pushes past some kids who shout at him and
he is there, directly below the camera. And now? Now
what? He hears another shout and knows that
the man is nearly here. But the camera is not
looking at him. It is turning slowly in the other
direction. Hey! He shouts and he begins to jump up
and down.
Down here! Look down here! But he has no idea
if anyone can hear him.
He opens the bag for everyone to see and there
is a cry from a woman near to him,
followed by another and another. This must be why the
camera turns. Jake holds up the bag,
but he is scared, so scared, though he has to
do it.
That's mine. The man's voice says behind him. And there
are more cries from the crowd,
and everyone seems to know what is happening now.
Give it to me, the man says. Jake looks at
the bag one more time.
What he sees inside looks just like from the movies.
The clock, the wires, and the heavy
lights to give it to the man because he is
so scared. But he will not. No, he answers.
Then someone in the crowd says something and the man
looks around. The scared cries now
become angry shouts. Jake is pushed and he falls and
loses the bag. He thinks that the
people are shouting at him and he wants to explain.
But it was not the man who pushed
Jake and took the bag. It was a policeman. The
man is underneath four NYPD officers.
Jake now realises that the crowd is not shouting. It
is cheering.
And a police officer helps him to stand and says
something about him being a hero.
How did you know, kid? A voice says. But this
time it's not Nick.
I didn't, he manages to say. It's just the wrong
bag.
The perfect murder. The QM2 darling is the finest ocean
liner in the world.
Sure, there are one or two bigger than her but
none of them has her romance or her luxury.
Mrs Carolina Heath says as they enter the dining room.
Her young new friend only smiles.
She is a quiet young thing and beautiful too. And
Carolina likes to have beautiful things around her.
So she is more than happy to talk for both
of them.
This is your first cruise, you say? You're going to
love it. Just look at the view out there.
And from the large glass windows they can see the
majestic figure of the Statue of Liberty
as the ship slowly moves away from the port of
New York and heads into the deep of the ocean.
It's fantastic, Eleanor says. And again Carolina is very happy
to have a new companion.
The dining room is magnificent. The tables are covered in
white and the lights are low and atmospheric.
The band in the corner is playing soft classical music.
Well I wonder what the other people at our table
are like.
Oh my look, here we are, table six.
Well good evening gentlemen, Carolina says. And the three men
stop their conversation and smile.
Mrs Heath, one says, how good to see you again.
Another evening of champagne and dancing?
Every night Peter, my doctor tells me that I must.
She laughs.
Gentlemen, let me introduce you to my new friend, Miss
Eleanor Chance.
Eleanor only nods and smiles. And these Eleanor, well how
to describe them?
I suppose every ship needs some pirates. And these are
they. Meet Peter, Edward and Michael.
The men stand and nod politely. And Carolina is amused
by the interested looks they give Eleanor
Chance. Pirates, Eleanor asks. Well maybe not pirates. But you
should still be careful.
They are in fact writers. And I don't know which
is worse.
Writers, how interesting. Please sit down. Edward says with a
smile that shows early signs of
infatuation. No I can't, I must find the captain. He
promised to tell me all about the new people
on board today. You know how I must know who
I'm sailing with. She looks at the men.
Oh but can I trust you three to look after
Eleanor? This is her first night and her first cruise.
She does not need to hear any of your horrible
stories or strange ideas.
Oh well I suppose we can change the subject. But
we are having a really interesting conversation.
Carolina laughs. I don't want to know. Just be nice.
And she smiles at Eleanor.
If they scare you just scream and I can rescue
you. Oh I think I can look after myself.
responds Eleanor. And again Carolina thinks what a sweet lovely
thing she is.
She must be only 25 or 26. Her long blonde
hair is elegant and her face full of classical beauty.
And those eyes. Such innocent blue eyes. Yes a lovely
new companion she thinks as she leaves.
At the table Edward offers Eleanor a chair and Michael
passes her a glass of champagne.
So are you all writers? She asks. Yes says Peter.
Of different types. I'm in film Edward
here as a novelist and Michael writes plays. Fascinating. She
says. And all three look happy
that she thinks so. And what is this interesting conversation
that I'm interrupting? Oh we can't
bore you with that. Please tell us about yourself says
Edward.
Eleanor smiles shyly and moves the elegant white silk scarf
that lies around her neck
above her black dress. There is very little to say
I'm sailing from here to Southampton
then I intend to stay in England for some time.
For the summer perhaps.
Then she is quiet and the three men think how
polite and gentle she seems.
I see says Peter. Well this is a tradition of
ours. Every year we take a cruise on old Mary.
This is the sixth year. A good escape from editors
and deadlines.
And wives says Michael. Well for them not for me
I'm not married says Edward. A little too quickly.
For a moment there's an awkward silence and Peter and
Michael exchange a smile.
Well our conversation is about murder says Peter to fill
the silence.
The perfect murder. Eleanor smiles. I see. I'm sure she's
not interested Pete says Edward.
Oh but I am. Mrs. Heath is lovely but she
only talks about scandal and gossip.
See Edward? We can continue to argue. Michael jokes. You
see we all have very different ideas
about what the perfect murder is. Peter thinks that for
a film there must be something visual
about the murder weapon. For me the important things are
the character and the motive.
And for me Edward says as he refills Eleanor's glass.
The important thing is the twist.
The twist. You know the surprise at the end of
the story the thing you don't expect.
Eleanor smiles and takes a drink. The statue of liberty
is still visible in the distance
but they will soon be alone on the dark ocean.
You know I think you're all correct. In fact I
have an idea for a story. An idea I think
about occasionally.
Really? Says Peter. Well you must tell us.
Maybe she says with another shy smile. But you first.
What's your idea for the perfect murder
weapon? Peter laughs. Okay well it's not my idea and
it's old but I think it's great for a film.
It's an icicle. The other two men laugh. He always
says this. Edward informs Eleanor.
Because it's perfect. After the murderer kills the victim they
just watch the
weapon melt. No fingerprints. No evidence. What do you think
Eleanor? She smiles.
It's very clever. But well I prefer fire. Fire. Yes
fire kills and it destroys the evidence.
And also a fire can look like an accident. The
icicle never can.
Haha she's right. Laughs Michael. So what about characters and
motive? He continues.
A beautiful young couple who are happy and in love.
What and he kills her? No she kills him.
Let me guess they're rich. She wants his money. Eleanor
takes another drink.
No she's the rich one. So what's the motive? Michael
asks.
Wait a minute. Interrupts Peter. You say she kills him.
With fire. How?
She locks him in a room in a burning house?
No because then he might escape.
She drugs him with sleeping pills during dinner. She always
goes for a run in the evening.
But this time she waits until he falls asleep in
a chair in the lounge.
And she puts a candle to the curtains. Then she
goes for her run and makes sure that many people
see her. Peter nods his head. Interesting but a coroner
will find traces of sleeping pills in
the blood. They'll know. No not with this type of
pill. At a certain temperature it completely
burns away. Only a small trace of it can be
detected. And if they are detected. So what?
They are his pills. Peter laughs this time. Excellent. Very
clever. Edward agrees.
But unfortunately the wife is always a suspect in a
murder.
Normally yes says Eleanor. And all three men notice how
her smile fades a little.
But she has a plan for that. You see she
runs until she hears the fire engines.
Then she returns to the house. There are people there
already. Neighbors.
And this is just what she wants. They try to
stop her but she runs into the burning building.
No one follows her. They can't. They know it's too
dangerous. And so she goes to her husband as
the flames spread over his body and she watches. And
while she watches she lets the flames touch
her too. They reach out and they burn her back
and her neck and her hair.
And at this point she screams and runs from the
building and falls to the floor.
Eleanor stops speaking. And for a moment there is silence
at the table.
My god says Edward. She lets the flames burn her.
Michael takes a moment to think about it
and then nods. It's perfect. The perfect way to avoid
suspicion.
Everyone thinks it's an accident and that she is heartbroken
says Peter.
Yes. Eleanor says. And for a moment more there is
silence again.
Then the band starts to play a waltz and Eleanor
looks at Edward. I don't suppose you dance Edward.
And the writer goes a little red. Actually I do.
Would you like to join me?
Eleanor smiles and they both stand up. She adjusts the
white scarf around her neck.
But what about the woman's motive? Michael asks. Eleanor smiles.
Yes that's the difficult part.
And I'm afraid I just don't know. I suppose sometimes
a person just enjoys murder.
And as Eleanor and Edward move away to the dance
floor Peter and Michael see her adjust the
scarf around her neck one last time. And in the
low romantic light of the ballroom
they both think they see something strange on her back
and neck. Something which makes them stop
and look at each other. But no. It cannot be
what they think it is. It cannot be burnt skin
under the elegant white scarf. Can it? Case closed.
Normally Nick likes his job but not today. Today he
just wants to get out of the hot
courtroom away from the serious lawyers in their black gowns
and white wigs and go and enjoy the
son. It's a good job he thinks. It's better than
serving drinks in a pub or helping out at his
dad's
office. But only if it's a short day and only
if the case is closed quickly. But today it's nearly
three and the case is nowhere near closed. Still he
likes the title of his job.
Court reporter sounds good. It sounds important. And that is
exactly how he describes it to any
girl that asks. In reality however all he does is
press play on the recording device and write
down a few notes about when the judge enters, when
the prosecution or defense speaks or what the
final verdict is. And sometimes the cases are interesting. And
he likes having some good
stories to tell the guys in the pub. He also
enjoys deciding who is innocent and who is guilty.
But today that's too easy. So he looks out of
the window and waits for the judge. Sometimes he
looks across at the defendant's sister, a young woman with
long dark hair and sad eyes. But only
sometimes because the defendant and the rest of her family,
the Lee family, are wild. And he does
not want to make her or them angry. They have
a terrible reputation in Bristol and there is not
one of them that does not scare Nick. All rise.
The court clerk says. And the jury, the lawyers and
the family of the defendant all stand. Nick does too.
And he remembers to press the button on the
device. He forgot to do it once and they refused
to pay him for the day.
Please be seated, says the judge, a woman of about
40 years of age with a serious face and tone.
My summary of this case is brief. The jury know
all the details. On Wednesday the 5th of January
Mrs. Dawson went to the house of her sister, the
defendant, Miss Lee. Mrs. Dawson was bleeding
from her nose and mouth. She also had marks on
her face. She says her husband, the deceased
Mr. Dawson, hit her there several times. There are pictures
of these injuries but there is no
proof that Mr. Dawson hit Mrs. Dawson. However, that is
not why you are here. You are here because
when Miss Lee saw her young sister, she took a
pair of scissors from her kitchen table,
said something to her sister and left the house. The
words, she said, were,
I will kill him. But the defendant says she does
not remember that.
Several people saw the defendant walking around Bristol, looking for
Mr. Dawson.
She stopped twice. Once at the house of one of
Mrs. Dawson's friends and once at a local pub,
both times she had the scissors with her and both
times witnesses testified that she said,
I will kill him. At half past two in the
afternoon on the 5th of January, Miss Stella Lee found
Mr.
Dawson. He was leaving a cafe with a friend. The
friend, Mr. Harris, says that Miss Lee did not say
anything to Mr. Dawson and that the only thing Mr.
Dawson said was hello. Miss Lee then stabbed
Mr. Dawson in the neck with the scissors and he
died in seconds due to loss of blood. Miss Lee
waited until the police came and was arrested. Ladies and
gentlemen of the jury, you must decide
only one thing. The defense says that this is not
murder, but manslaughter. They say this is the
case because Miss Lee was not in a sane state
of mind when she killed Mr. Dawson. They say that
this crime was in defense of her sister. The prosecution
says this is not true. They say this
is premeditated murder because for half an hour Miss Lee
looked for Mr. Dawson.
They also say she made her intention clear on three
different occasions. Please leave us now
and take some time to consider these events. All rise.
The court clerk says again,
the judge leaves, the jury returns to its room to
make a verdict and the Lee family
exit to wait in the lobby. Nick sighs. It is
obvious what the decision will be,
but it looks like he will be here until four
now. Cigarette time then, he thinks,
and he leaves the courtroom. He has at least 10
minutes. No jury can make a decision in less
than 10 minutes. He takes the back stairs, passes three
or four lawyers in their black gowns and
white wigs and feels sorry for them. It is so
hot today. Then he pushes open a firedoor to his
personal smoking area at the back of the court next
to the bins and lights his cigarette.
The feeling of the sun on his face is good
and the taste of the smoke is even better.
Tonight is a good night to go out for a
few drinks, he thinks, and he is deciding whom to
call when
he hears a female voice. Yeah, everything is fine, perfect.
No, no one has an idea,
not the police, not my mental family. Of course it
will be murder. What? Oh, who cares about her?
She will probably like prison the crazy cow, more people
for her to work. And then I get his money
and you and I can get the L out of
this city and out of this country. Nick walks to
the bins and
looks around them. On the other side is the sister
of the defendant. In the courtroom she always
looks sad and confused. Now, however, she looks only victorious.
Jesus, Nick says before he can
stop himself. And the girl sees him and closes the
mobile phone in her hand. Nick looks at her for
a second and then turns and runs back to the
door. He walks back up the stairs feeling confused and
uncertain. He has to say something to someone, but who?
The judge? Maybe. He pushes the door to
the court from open. No one is there. He moves
towards another door and then hears someone else
enter the court. Wait, Mrs. Dawson says, and she looks
like she might cry. Please wait, I need to
explain. Nick waits. Why not? What can she do to
him in here? She stands near to him and he
can
see the tears in her eyes and the sad expression
on her face. But this time he knows it's not
real.
I heard you. Your own sister. You wanted her to
kill your husband. No, you don't understand.
I don't know what you were, but I loved my
sister and I used to love my husband. For a
second
only, Nick waits. Then he shakes his head and is
about to turn. Look, she says, her voice different
now. I saw you looking at me yesterday. Maybe there's
something we can do to make you forget this?
Maybe you can take me for a drink. Then she
smiles and takes his hand. For a second,
he does not know what to say. But he knows
what to do. And he pulls his hand away and
moves to the
door. For a second, she is silent. But then she
speaks again. Though this time her voice is hard
and angry. Fine, go and tell them what you were.
Do you have any proof? No, so you can tell
them
what you want, but they can do nothing. And you
are still here in Bristol. And so is my family.
And they will not like what you say. Do you
understand me? Nick stops. He understands.
And she's right. There's nothing he can do. That's right,
little boy. Keep quiet and you're
going to be okay. I never hurt anyone. She did.
Is it my fault she's so stupid? So easy to
manipulate.
A little bit of blood on my face. A few
tears. A fake story about him hitting me. It was
so easy.
And if you tell anyone, it's going to be just
as easy to finish you. Understand?
Then the door opens and the lawyers return. And Mrs.
Dawson's expression of sadness returns.
Slowly they all come back in. And Nick knows he
has to say something.
He has to do something. But there's no time. And
there's nothing he can do.
The Lee family is back in the room now. And
he looks at them. They are savage,
terrible people who love violence. So he moves back to
his desk and he sits down in the seat
and feels defeated. He wants to say something. But without
proof, he has nothing and the judge
can do nothing. And he hears the door to the
judge's chamber open.
All rise. John says and Nick knows it's too late
now. He stands and is about to press the button
on
the recording device when he sees the red light flashing.
The red light. The red light means
it's recording. It's recording. It was recording. It recorded. Stop,
Nick shouts.
And he hands the recording device to the court clerk.
I think the judge needs to listen to this first.
He says and he looks back at the beautiful Mrs.
Dawson and sees that she is not sad now and
that she is not victorious and not angry.
And he smiles at her because he thinks this expression
suits her best. Yes,
he thinks Mrs. Dawson looks best when she is scared.
Don't move.
It feels like ice cold water. One moment you are
asleep.
Your dreams calm and gentle and your body warm in
the blankets of your bed.
The next moment you are awake. A horrible sensation filling
your body.
And you are sure that ice cold water is covering
you. But it's not.
No, it's something much worse. Something that makes your heart
beat faster.
Something that makes the hairs on your arms stand up
and that makes your eyes search the
horrible complete darkness of your room. No, it's not ice
cold water. It's fear.
And for a few moments you are so afraid that
you cannot think. You know you are still in
your bed, still in your house, still in your quiet
street in the north of Manchester.
And you want to tell yourself to relax. That everything
is okay.
And to close your eyes and return to your calm
and gentle dreams. But you cannot.
No, you cannot because you know that everything is not
okay.
You know that you are awake because something woke you.
Some noise.
Some movement. Somebody. And you try to remember what it
was.
But you cannot. So you lie there and you let
your eyes adjust to the dark.
And you do not tell yourself to relax. You do
not tell yourself that everything is okay.
And you do not tell yourself to return to your
calm and gentle dreams.
You tell yourself this. Don't move. The blanket of your
bed is covering all of you
except for your head. And part of you thinks that
this is good.
Part of you wants to cover your head too. To
hide. To be completely silent and to wait.
But another part of you wants to know. Needs to
know. So you listen. And you look.
And you try to remember what it was that woke
you. A dog outside in the street.
The alarm of a car. A baby crying in the
next house. Or something closer. Something inside the
house. The sound of breaking glass. The noise of the
front door opening. A voice in the dark.
So you do not move. But you let your eyes
adjust. And soon the complete darkness is not so complete.
And you can see your room now. Though everything seems
strange and different. And
everything makes you feel more afraid. The door of your
wardrobe is open. And the clothes inside
look like three or four small burglars watching you. The
lamp in the corner of the room looks like
the tall silent figure of a murderer. And the coat
on the back of your door has hands that almost
touch you. But this is just your imagination. Your fear.
And you know that. And try to stay calm
and focused. So you listen. And you think that everything
seems to be normal. Inside the room
everything is silent. Apart from the slow and constant tick
of the small clock on the wall.
And the fast irregular beat of your heart. You try
to see the clock in the dark. But it's
impossible. And you think that it must be somewhere between
four and six o'clock. The darkest hours
of the night when even the lively and vibrant city
of Manchester sleeps. Yes outside the house
the streets are silent. There are no shouts or loud
voices coming from university students
returning home from the pubs and bars. There is not
yet the sound of the milk van or rubbish
collectors. And there is no bird song to let you
know that the sun and the new day are nearly
here.
You can imagine the street outside. Twenty terraced houses stretching
down the road.
Small houses with neither rich nor poor people inside them.
All with tidy and ordinary gardens
and ordinary cars. All silent and all dark. You think
that if you scream someone will hear you.
But you are not sure. Not completely sure. And so
you wait. And you listen. And you look.
And you tell yourself one more time. Don't move. After
a few more moments you begin to feel a little
more relaxed. The street is silent. And the house is
too. Maybe it was only a bad dream that woke
you. Maybe it was a text on your mobile phone.
Maybe it was an animal in the garden. And then
you think of Sophie. Your cat. But you know that
the noise was not her. You know that Sophie is
sleeping in her usual position at the top of the
stairs. And that she never makes a noise in the
night. And you wish for the first time that you
also had a dog. A large brave dog to bark
and growl at any intruders. Yes a brave dog to
protect you instead of just a lazy cat that lies
in dangerous places. And you almost smile. And you relax
a little more. It was just a bad dream.
You think. And your heart slows. And the sensation of
ice cold fear begins to leave you.
And now you move. You pull the covers down to
your chest and make yourself comfortable again.
And you know that you can rest now. Everything is
okay. And your eyes close. And you feel sleep
begin to take you. And then you hear it. There.
A sound. Not a dream. But movement in the spare
room. Where you keep the computer. Don't move. Part of
you says the part that feels the sensation
of cold water on your skin again. But there is
another part of you now. And it's not cold with
fear.
It is hot. Hot with anger. Because you know now
that someone is in your house. A burglar.
Someone is here to steal your things. Don't move. Part
of you says again. But you do.
Quietly you move the blankets from your body and you
take the dressing gown from the end of your
bed and you put it on. You know you should
call the police but you need to do something more.
Something quick. At the side of your bed there is
a table. And on the table there is a small
statue.
It's a statue of a woman. And it's your favorite
statue. It's also a very heavy statue. You pick
it up. Hold it like a club and swing it.
Yes. It's heavy enough. One hit to the head.
But can you do it? Can you hit someone? Can
you hit a burglar? Then you hear another noise from
the spare room. My computer you think. My new computer.
And then you know that yes you can do
it if you need to. If you have to. If
there is someone in the next room trying to steal
your
new computer. Someone who thinks they can enter your house
in the middle of the night.
What if there are two people. Two burglars. Or three.
Don't move. The scared part of you says.
But you must. You walk silently to the door of
your room. You quietly open it just a little
so you can see the dark landing. Now you can
hear the movement more easily. There are no voices.
No reason for you to think that there is more
than one burglar. You open the door a little more
and step out onto the landing. It's colder here but
you do not feel it. Your heart is beating so
fast that you do not feel anything but the strange
mixture of fear and anger. You move quietly.
You're back to the wall. The light switch is not
near your door but halfway to the stairs.
The door to the spare room is half open. And
you can hear the sound of the wind outside.
You know now that the window to the spare room
is open. And you know this is how the burglar
entered.
You take one more step to the door. Your hand
is nearly on the light switch when you hear
another noise from the room. Then the door begins to
open slowly and quietly. You want to turn back
and run to your room and hide under the blanket
and be completely silent and not move.
But this is your house. And you know you must
stay. Then standing right in front of you in the
dark
you see the burglar. And he looks back at you
and shouts. You turn on the lights and swing the
heavy statue in his direction. But you cannot see him
now because the light is so bright.
You hear your new computer fall to the floor and
break and the burglar shouts again.
And then you can see his face. And you realize
that he looks more afraid than you do.
And he is stepping quickly backwards to the stairs. He
is young. Just a kid. Just a stupid kid.
Then you see Sophie in her normal place at the
top of the stairs. And you see how near the
burglaries. You only have time to shout two words. Don't
move. But it is too late.
And he does move. And then he falls. God is
in the detail.
The back streets of Dublin are quiet and the sun
is slowly setting on the old city.
Barry Brennan stands in the doorway of an empty shop
and waits. He smokes his cigarettes continuously
and enjoys the taste of each one. He enjoys another
sweeter taste too.
The taste of freedom. But he has to be careful.
He knows that. The garden are everywhere.
And they are looking for him. And if he wants
to keep his freedom he has to be clever.
He has to be patient. And so he watches the
street. And the small red brick houses.
Most importantly though he watches the church. His own parish
church. The church of his childhood.
St. Anthony's. How long ago was his last visit to
this cold stone building? More than 20 years?
Well that's not important at the moment. No. The only
thing that's important is something that the
church can offer him right now. The one thing he
needs if he wants to keep his freedom and get
the suitcase that's buried in his brother's old garage. The
suitcase that can help him escape
the country and live the rest of his life on
a tropical island in the Bahamas. Sanctuary.
And so he waits. And the evening becomes darker. And
he thinks that there are now only one or two
people left in the small old church. He decides that
it's time. He pulls the collar of his stolen
coat up to cover his face. And he checks that
no one can see the grey prison uniform that he's
still wearing beneath it. He finishes his last cigarette and
stops to listen. In the distance
he can hear the siren of a gardy car in
the city centre. But he's sure it's not for him.
So he crosses the road slowly and casually. Walks up
the stone steps of the church and looks
around once more before he pushes open the wooden doors
and goes inside. St. Anthony's.
It smells no different he thinks as he enters. And
it looks identical too. The same cold grey
walls. The same uncomfortable heavy pews. And the same weak
candles to light up the dark room.
He was right. There are a few people inside. Two
women sitting together on the front pew.
Their eyes closed and heads down. And an old man
who looks at Barry for a moment before returning
to his prayers. But not one of them is interested
in him. Good. Barry thinks. The place is practically
empty. He looks to the right wall and sees what
he's looking for. A large wooden box with two
doors. Quietly he walks past the pews and stops near
the box. He pauses for a moment to try and
remember what he has to do next. But then the
door to the church opens again and three women enter.
As he does not want them to see his face
he pulls open the left door to the box and
enters.
A confessional. As soon as he's inside he hates it.
It's small, so small and it reminds him of his
prison cell back in the joy. Father. He says. But
there is no reply and he can see no movement
self comfortable on the small chair. But after a few
minutes he realizes how tired he is.
And he thinks that maybe he can close his eyes
for a moment and even rest his head against the
grill. But he mustn't sleep. He tells himself. He mustn't.
But he does. And he dreams of the
suitcase buried under his brother's old garage. And he dreams
of the money inside and the
paradise in the Bahamas. Hello?
Says a voice. And Barry wakes up and looks around
in confusion and fear.
Is there someone there? Says the voice. Barry remembers where
he is.
Yes, I'm here. He says. And for a moment there
is silence before he remembers what to say.
Bless me, Father, for I have sinned. And again there
is a long silence. Barry tries to see
the face through the grill. But there is only a
dark shape. Finally, the voice replies.
I see. Go on. First, Father, I need to know
something. I need to know that anything I say here
is not
to be repeated. That's how this works, isn't it?
That is true. My son. The voice says. And Barry
thinks that it's a calm and honest voice.
Is that Father O'Connor? He asks, remembering his old
priest. O'Connor?
No, son. My name is Keen. I believe Father O
'Connor passed away nearly ten years ago.
Barry nods in the dark space. But does it matter
that you're not my priest? Can you still listen?
Any man can listen, says the quiet voice. But can
you promise not to tell anyone?
I promise, my son. I will not tell a soul.
And Barry nods again and feels ready to speak.
Father, I need to ask for something from you. I
need to ask for sanctuary.
Sanctuary? Yes, Father. I need somewhere to hide for a
few days, a week maybe. Can you do that?
Can you help me hide here in the church? There
is another silence.
Maybe. But why, my son? I can only help you
if you tell me why.
God, you see, is in the detail. If you want
to confess and receive God's forgiveness,
you must tell me everything. Okay, Father. But remember, you
promise not to tell a soul?
I do. Barry nods. My name is Barry Brennan. Do
you know the name? Another pause.
I do, my son. It's on every radio and every
television. You are the prisoner, the one that
escaped from Mount Joy Prison. My son, you should let
me take you to the guards. No, Barry shouts.
You promised, Father. No one can know. Then you must
tell me everything.
Everything. There's not much to tell. I escaped from the
guardie van that was taking me to
hospital. I told him I had a pain in my
side and the doctors thought it was my appendix.
When I was in the van, it stopped and I
hit one of the guards, took his keys and ran.
That was two days ago. Well, God will judge you
for this, my son.
But tell me, why did you stay in the city?
Why not run for the countryside?
Or hop on a ferry out of here? Well, Father,
there's something I need to get before I can go.
And that's why I'm here. I need to wait for
a few days until they think I'm miles from the
city.
Then I can get this thing and I can go.
And I promise, Father, after this, I will never commit
another crime again. I will lead a quiet and honest
life. And Barry imagines the beaches of the
Bahamas. I see, says the voice, I want to help
you. And if you confess all your sins to me,
then maybe I can. But, like I say, God is
in the detail. What is this thing you need?
Barry hesitates. He thinks about lying, but why? The priest
promises not to tell a soul.
It's a suitcase, Father, and inside there is half a
million euros. And yes, it is stolen,
but I promise, Father, no one needed now. I stole
it more than eight years ago from a bank
security van, a bank, Father, and they have insurance and
all that, so they don't need it.
No one needs it now, apart from me. And this
time the silence is heavy and tense.
And Barry can hear the voices of the women as
they leave the church. He wonders if there
are still any people there. But he thinks there are
not.
Well, says the quiet voice. I understand, my son. And
I will help you.
I can let you sleep here for a few days,
and I can bring you some food.
Oh, Father, thank you, Father. But, like I say, God
is in the detail.
Where exactly is this suitcase? What? Why? Why? Because I
need to know that you aren't going to
hurt anyone to get it. The voice says seriously. Barry
loves. Oh, no, Father, I promise.
It's in an old garage of my brother. On a
bit of land next to the house road. I can
go at night,
dig up the concrete, and get it no problem. Well,
I tell you what, you wait here.
I'm going to close the church. Then maybe I can
find you that bit of food and some other clothes.
And for the first time in two days, Barry Brennan
feels relief. He can really taste the freedom now.
Ah, thank you, Father. Thank you.
You know, I'm sure there's a bit of spare money
for the church. 3,000 maybe.
What do you think? But there is no answer. There
is, however, a strange noise. Something moving
against the door of the confessional. Something heavy. Something like
one of the heavy pews.
And Barry tries to push the door open. But he
cannot. And before Barry Brennan begins to
shout and scream to the empty church, he hears the
soft voice one more time.
Now, Son, I told you that any man can listen,
didn't I? It says. And I also told you that
God
is in the detail. And an important detail, a very
important detail. Is that you're in the wrong
side of the confessional? I just stopped in to confess
about stealing another bottle of whiskey
from the shop. But you know, I think I can
do that next time. Yes, I think I might have
a lot more
to confess tomorrow. No, you did say howth road. And
then there is only the sound of Barry Brennan's
shouts. And there is no one in the church to
hear those. Well, apart from God, I suppose.
Route 66. The car is big and old, but it's
a classic. And it moves along the road like a
shark,
the evening sun reflecting off the red paint. The roof
is down. And Dan enjoys the feeling of the
wind in his hair. It calls him and helps him
to stay awake. He's tired, very tired, and he still
feels sick from the beer and whiskey of last night.
Soon he can stop, find a quiet area off the
road
and push back the chair and sleep. But not yet.
The Mojave desert is still all around him with
its flat orange sands and dead bushes. The plan was
to get to Flagstaff, but it's too many miles
away. So instead he just wants to get as far
from the town called Needles as he can before the
night
comes. Needles. He hates that town. And that girl. He
looks at his right hand on the steering wheel.
The skin is raw, and he tries to remember exactly
what happened last night, but he cannot. And maybe
he should not. Stupid girl. But anyway, why think about
it? Just drive, get a few more miles from the
town
and from her. He hits the button for the radio,
and an old song fills the silence of the desert.
A good song, he thinks. A real song. All guitars
and rock and roll. He feels a little better.
Maybe it's time for the first drink of the day
after all, and he takes the small flask from the
pocket of his denim jacket, removes the lid, and swallows.
For a second, the taste is foul.
A horrible reminder of last night, of the girl and
of the hotel room. But then the hot whiskey
starts to fill him, and he smiles, puts his head
back and laughs loudly into the desert.
Route 66! He shouts, and he turns the volume of
the radio up. He can forget about last night,
about the girl. His shirt has a little blood on
it, and his hand is sore. But he can get
a new
shirt, and the whiskey will help the pain. No, this
is his holiday, his escape from all those
idiots back in California. Forget needles and forget the girl.
Just relax and enjoy it.
She was not the first girl, and he knows she
will not be the last. Maybe there's one waiting for
him in Flagstaff, and this one, he hopes, will have
a little more respect for him and won't laugh at
him. So he drives, and for a while he feels
better. The sun is lower in the sky now.
It's a little less hot, and the radio keeps him
company with old songs about love and women,
rock and roll and country music, real music. But then
the songs stop, and the news report starts.
There's something about needles, something about trouble on Route 66,
and he tries to listen,
but the signal is weak. A young, dead, the police
are looking, a man, probably alone,
and thought to be extremely dangerous, any information call, and
then the signal fails,
and there is only the sound of the old classic
engine and the silence of the desert.
Dead? No, no, it can't be her. He looks at
his hand again and tries to make a fist,
but it hurts. And he thinks of the white shirt
in the trunk of the car, the white shirt with
blood
on it. What did he do last night? He tries
to remember, he tries to remember exactly what happened.
He remembers the bar clearly, he remembers buying her a
drink, and then another, and another.
He remembers that afterwards they were in the hotel room,
kissing. But then something happened,
and she laughed. She laughed at him, but he cannot
remember why. It was something stupid,
something he said or did. And then? But the rest
is impossible to remember.
He woke up late in the hotel room and was
alone. He saw the blood, but there was only a
little,
and his hand hurt. And he knew. Yeah, he could
not remember, but he knew.
And he thinks of all the times he watched his
father hit his mother.
Jesus! He says, and he does not feel tired anymore.
He puts his foot on the accelerator,
and the car starts to speed along the old road.
Forget sleeping. Forget Flagstaff.
He needs to find another route and a motel to
stay in for a few days.
A cheap motel, where they only want a name and
some cash. The sun is almost down now.
The sky a deep orange and red. And the road
is empty. Or it is until he speeds past the
large
billboard. Then suddenly the road is not empty. There is
a car behind him. Its red and blue lights
fill the evening. And the sound of the siren fills
his ears.
No! He groans as he sees it in the mirror.
And he thinks for a moment about not stopping.
But there is nowhere for him to go. Jesus, just
stay cool down, just stay cool.
He tries to tell himself as the red car slows
down. So he stops on the edge of the desert,
hides the flask of whiskey under the seat and lights
a cigarette to cover the smell.
God, he wishes he could remember last night. Not just
the girl's expression when he hit her.
But everything. In the mirror he sees the cop car
park behind him,
and he watches a young tall cop get out. Just
one. Good. If things get serious then maybe he
can manage if there's just one. He watches the cop
walk slowly to the car.
The guy's eyes are covered by silver sunglasses. And there's
something strange about his uniform.
Dan thinks. But before he can decide what, the cop
is at the door and Dan drops his cigarette.
Evening officer, he says, and tries to look sorry. I
know I was going a little too fast,
I'm sorry. The cop looks at him and nods, but
says nothing. Dan wants to see the eyes behind
the glasses, but cannot. I suppose it's this road. The
desert makes it easy to forget to
watch your speed. He says, and he thinks he sees
the cop look at his hand. Jesus. Is this it?
Did he really do something to that girl? More than
hit her once.
Did he do what they said on the radio? Was
she dead?
Yep, the cop says. These roads are funny like that.
Lots of people have problems out here.
This is a nice car. A classic. Yours? And his
voice is slow. Yes sir, I have my license here
in
the registration. The cop nods, but does not take them.
I need to ask you to get out of the
car.
Dan tries to smile. Is there a problem officer? And
he looks at the gun on the cop's belt.
If he can get the gun, then he can escape.
Forget California, go north to Canada or Alaska.
But he waits. Maybe this is something else, a routine
check, a formality.
Be cool, Dan. He tells himself. Just get out of
the car, please. The cop repeats.
Dan nods and gets out. And he thinks again that
there is something strange about the cop's uniform.
It's small. Too small for a tall man like him.
I need to see in the trunk of the car,
sir.
Jesus. The shirt. The shirt is in the trunk. Is
that what he wants? The trunk? Can I ask why?
Just routine. Just routine. Maybe it is. And the shirt
is in his bag at the bottom where it cannot
be seen.
Okay? He walks around to the trunk. The cop behind
him. And he pushes the button.
For a moment, he does nothing. He remembers the baseball
bat he keeps in there. If the cop asks
to look in his bag, he can reach in, grab
the bat and take a swing. Maybe it can work.
Sir? The cop says. Sure. And Dan starts to lift
the lid of the trunk. But in the reflection of
the red paint, he sees the cop raise his hand.
And in the soft evening light, he sees the knife.
And for a moment, he does not understand. But then
he moves. He is almost quick enough.
But the knife still cuts him and he screams and
falls to the floor. The cop falls too and there
is a moment of confusion. But then Dan pushes himself
up onto his feet and runs. He sees the
cop car and runs to it and pulls open the
door. That's when he sees the bodies.
One is clearly a police woman. But the other, a
short man, has no uniform.
Jesus! He screams and he remembers the news story on
the radio.
A young, dead, the police are looking a man, probably
alone and thought to be extremely dangerous.
Any information, call. And he starts to run again, not
on the road now, but into the desert.
He wants to turn to look back to see if
the man is following him. But he does not dare.
He thinks that if he keeps running, he can escape
and find help. Find the real police.
But the sun is gone now and darkness is all
around him. Now everything from last night
is coming back to him. He remembers hitting the girl.
He remembers her shouting at him
and he remembers telling her to get out. And he
remembers the last thing she said before she
closed the door to the hotel room.
I hope you die and rot in the desert, she
shouted, blood still on her face.
And he almost laughs in disbelief. But then he hears
someone running behind him and he screams
instead.
The Fall
Brandon tries not to think as he walks through the
snow that reaches up to his waist.
He is confused and weak. He tries not to remember
the expression on Greg's face as the
bullet hit him in the back. You said it was
easy. Brandon calls out into the forest of
silent trees that surround him, his voice full of emotion.
You said no one could get hurt.
But someone did get hurt. And now Brandon is alone
and he feels tired and lost.
And he knows that the man in the dark winter
coat and black hat is near.
And he thinks that the next bullet is for him.
He tries to move faster through the snow,
but it's so deep. And it is so cold. His
clothes are wet and his skin frozen.
He wants to put his hand in his coat pocket,
but he has to keep the grey pistol ready.
He remembers the way that Greg fell. One moment they
were running, the next there was the sound
of the gun and a scream. Then Greg was on
the floor. Brandon wanted to stop and help him.
But Greg told him to run, to escape and to
not say anything to anyone.
And then Brandon heard another gunshot, so he ran and
left his brother in the snow to die alone.
You said it was easy. He shouts again and recalls
the first time his brother had told him about
the plan. Listen to me. His brother said at a
dark table in the corner at the lake Louise Inn.
It's easy, Bran. I know exactly what to do. Brandon
put his beer down.
But a kid, Greg. I don't want to hurt a
kid.
What? His brother said, his eyes full of anger. You
think I do?
Idiot, we won't hurt anyone. We just take the kid
in the truck.
Then we phone the hotel. We tell them to tell
the parents they can have the kid when they leave
us the money. It's easy. No one can get hurt.
But Brandon was not so sure.
He knew his brother was a criminal. He knew that
he brewed illegal beer to sell and that he drove
drugs across Alberta and British Columbia. But Brandon did not
do that. He did not do any of that.
He worked in the lumberyard. And he tried to do
things right. He tried to be better than that.
But no.
Brandon, his brother, said, I know you need the money.
You don't have a job. Your truck is in
pieces. You can't find work if you can't drive. What
does Sally say? Brandon shook his head.
Sally left me last month. He said, and he called
the waiter for another beer.
Tell me again. Tell me everything again.
Now alone in the forest, he thinks he can hear
the sound of feet in the snow behind him.
And he tries to move faster. There is another sound
too. A sound that he recognises. A sound
that's getting nearer. It's like constant thunder in the distance.
And he pushes through the snow
and he thinks that maybe, if he can get to
the sound, he can flee into the mountains and never
come back.
Look, every year, Greg said, hundreds of tourists come here,
right? Most of them are rich.
And some of them are very rich. They want to
ski in the spring, hike in the summer,
and spend their money in the hotel bar in the
spa. Some of these people are millionaires, Brandon.
Millionaires? Think about that. Greg drank some more of his
beer and looked around the bar.
Look at them. Their clothes are better than ours. Their
cars and trucks are better.
Everything they have is better. And listen, I don't hate
them for that. I don't.
I just know that if we ask them for a
small amount, then they can pay. I mean, 20,000.
No more.
If you ask for more, you have to wait. And
then there's the risk that they contact the police.
They can get 20,000 from the bank at bank.
We tell them they only have six hours.
We tell them to leave the money where we say,
or, or what, Greg? Or what?
On that first day, Brandon said no to the plan.
On the second day, he said no again.
On the third day, his truck stopped on the highway.
He had about 300 bucks left in the world.
Sally was gone. Their cabin by the lake was cold
and empty. There were no jobs for him
anywhere. So on the fourth day, he said yes.
The sound is louder now. Yes, it's a sound he
knows. A sound he knows well.
He can see nothing because of the trees, but he
knows he is very near. He feels warmer now,
and this scares him. In Canada, in the mountains, when
you're cold, you're okay. But when you're warm,
you were in trouble. What time is it now? He
does not know. He only knows that it was
three in the afternoon when they first heard the sound
of the police sirens.
We have to go. Brandon shouted.
How? How can they know we're here? Said Greg. Brandon
pulled him from the old deserted cabin
and they ran for Greg's truck. The sound of the
sirens was still in the distance,
and Brandon thought that maybe they were still okay and
that maybe they could leave. Maybe they
could escape together. But then there was that gunshot, and
the man in the dark winter coat and
black hat who appeared from behind the trees. So Brandon
ran, and he got to the truck and managed
to drive to the road, where for a few minutes
he thought he was free. But then another truck
appeared on the road behind him.
But which kid? Brandon asked, as they planned everything in
Greg's cabin.
There is a family who comes here maybe three or
four times a year. The wife is a pretty little
thing with red hair. I think she has family here,
or maybe she comes from the area. I don't know.
The husband is rich, very rich, and American. The kid
looks about eleven, and they let him walk
into the town from the hotel sometimes. So we watch,
and we wait. When he's alone,
we take him. I phone the hotel. Six hours, that's
it. That's enough time for them to get the money
from Banff. But not enough to do anything else like
phone the cops. It's easy. So that's what
they did. They took the kid as he walked into
town. There was no one on the snowy road. No
one saw
them. But they covered Greg's plates to be sure, and
they wore masks. The kids screamed at first,
but they gagged him and tied his hands. Greg made
the call to the hotel, and they drove to the
cabin in the Yoho National Park. Then they waited. Six
hours to leave them the money in a safe place.
No police or the kid dies. That's what Greg told
the hotel. Even if that part of it was not
true.
So how did it all go wrong? There are fewer
trees now, and the sound is louder, much louder,
like the shouting of a giant. The tachychor waterfalls. Brandon
watches the clear water tumble onto the
rocks, through the snow and down to the frozen forest
below. Why here? He doesn't know. He tried
to escape from the truck that chased him, but he
crashed on the highway. The next thing he knew,
he was holding his shoulder and walking confused and weak.
The falls. So beautiful. Just like when
he and Greg were kids. He wants to sit down
to look at them, and moves closer to the edge.
But no, he cannot sit down. He's sure that the
man with the gun is near. So instead,
he stands on the edge. He feels warm and weak,
and his shoulder hurts.
And he can't remember where Greg is. He said it
was easy. He says.
But it wasn't. A voice replies. And Brandon turns and
sees the dark coat.
Only this time there is no black hat. Just long
red hair. And a rifle.
How? How did you find us? You only had a
few hours to get the money. My husband went for
the money,
says the woman, rifling one hand's black hat in the
other. But I went to the road where you
took my son. I saw the tracks from your truck.
And I told the police. But I made sure I
found
the cabin first. I know these mountains better than they
do, and better than you.
I'm sorry, Brandon says. I really am sorry. The boy
is okay. He's in the back room of the cabin.
I know, the woman says. Are you going to shoot
me? He asks. There is only the sound of the
waterfall for a moment. Then the woman turns and moves
back into the trees. He feels his leg
shake and falls down onto the red and white snow
by the waterfall. I already did. She calls back
to him as she slowly disappears from sight. The old
school tie. The police car stops in the
detective Smith is older. His hair a mixture of black
and gray, his stomach large, and his
expression usually unhappy. The other detective West is younger and
thinner, but with an empty
look in his eye. Look at this place, says Smith.
In the distance, the church towers,
cathedral and university buildings of the city of Oxford are
all visible.
Around the old but impressive school, there are green gardens
and grounds that continue for miles.
And at the windows of the building, there are the
thirty faces of serious young men who watch
them strangely. God, what kind of kid goes to a
school like this? West nods, but does not say
anything. After only two weeks of working with Smith, he
already knows that it's best to just
nod. Come on, Smith says, and they walk to the
entrance. Inside, the school smells of wood and
polish, and on the walls there are antique pictures of
old teachers and respected students.
Not like my school. Sir? I went to a real
school. A comprehensive. You?
A grammar school, sir. And Smith nods his head and
says nothing.
The secretary outside the headmaster's room tells them they can
enter, but Smith stops.
Listen, West, I do the talking. You make the notes.
The best thing a good detective can do
is listen and observe. Write that down. Yes, sir? The
headmaster is a man about the same age as Smith.
But there the comparison ends. Smith looks tired, old, and
unhappy.
The headmaster, Mr. Bowen, does not exactly look happy, but
he looks content.
Content with his job, his life, his expensive house, and
his two expensive cars.
Smith hates him instantly. The secretary, a young and pretty
blonde, enters the room and sits by the
table. The headmaster tells them to sit in the same
voice he uses for his students.
Miss White here is to take notes and give you
some more details about Mr. Fletcher.
Mr. Fletcher asks Smith. Yes, Bowen stands by the large
windows and does not look at them.
He's why you're here, don't you know that? No, the
chief inspector told us to come,
but he didn't say why. Ah, yes, James. We play
golf together. Good man.
Well, the problem is that we can't find one of
our members of staff, Mr. Fletcher.
A missing person. I see. When did you last see
him? Miss White? His last class was yesterday at four.
He was teaching the upper sixth form boys, geometry. They
say he finished class at five and left as
normal. I see. Then he went home? Mr. Fletcher lives
on the grounds of the school several of the
older teachers do. He lives alone on the second floor
in the east wing. Two other teachers live
there, but neither saw him. Smith is about to speak
when a loud hammering sound starts,
and Bowen shakes his head. Sorry about that building work.
Several areas in the school are
being renovated. Smith speaks up. And did he leave the
school last night? We don't know.
He normally doesn't. He takes his meals in the room,
but last night he didn't call for anything.
Is that strange? Not uncommon. Sometimes he prefers to have
a sherry under cigar and nothing more,
but when he didn't come to breakfast this morning, we
began to worry. Smith looks at the clock.
Mr. Bowen, normally we need to wait 48 hours until
we can start a missing person investigation.
Bowen turns from the window and gives Smith an annoyed
look. Your chief inspector said you could
help. Was he wrong? Smith sighs and shakes his head.
Does Mr. Fletcher have any good friends here?
Or more importantly, enemies. He is a solitary man. But
respected. He is the oldest teacher at
Barnaby's, practically part of the building. Bowen stops and thinks.
He doesn't like our new music
teacher, Mr. Cliff. Didn't they have some sort of fight
recently, Miss White? I don't think so.
She says quietly. And what about the students? Smith asks
them both.
The students replies Bowen in an insulted tone. Detective, the
young men at this school are very clever
and come from very important families. In a few years
they will be politicians, judges or doctors.
They are not criminals. Smith breathes out with a puff.
No. Well, I suppose we could have a look
around the school. Good, says Bowen. Show them out, Miss
White. And the headmaster does not look
at them again. Jesus, says Smith in the corridor. Who
does he think he is? Just because he plays
golf with the chief inspector? Waste of bloody time this
is West. Did you hear him? This
pub in the city. And West nods again. They walk
along the corridors for five minutes
and reach an internal courtyard. Outside they can see the
renovation work. There's scaffolding on
the face of the old building, a new wall on
the side of it and three or four workmen are
sitting
on a bench eating lunch. They cross the courtyard. And
Smith stops to pick up a school tie on the
floor by the new wall. Politicians and doctors, they can't
even dress themselves.
And Smith puts the tie in his pocket. Sir, look.
West says and points to the top of a tower.
What? There are two people watching us, sir. And? Well,
just observing, sir. Maybe there's a
one we go. We can also check one or two
of the local pubs on the way back to the
city.
The door to the tower is in another corridor. And
when they open it, they hear footsteps on the
stairs. Who's that? Smith shouts. The footsteps stop and Miss
White steps into view. You?
Were you watching us from the roof? No, well, not
really. The secretary says quietly.
Who else is with you? Mr. Fletcher. What? No. Be
honest now or there might be trouble for you.
It's my fault. A voice says and a young man
steps forward. Miss White came to speak to me.
Oh, really? And who are you? I'm the music teacher,
Mr. Cliff.
Ah, well, isn't that interesting? No, it's not what you
think.
I came here to tell Mr. Cliff what the headmaster
said about the argument.
Go on. Look, says Cliff. It was nothing, really. Only
Fletcher said something about Miss White,
something no gentleman should say. I told him to apologize,
and then we argued. But the last time
I saw him was yesterday morning. It's true. Ads, Miss
White. Well, we might need to talk to you
again at another time. Smith says and turns to go
back to the courtyard. But then he stops.
How did you know Mr. Cliff was here, Miss White?
The secretary blushes. We meet here,
sometimes, for lunch. Ah, I see. Then the hammering they
heard in the headmaster's office starts again.
And the policeman go to the door.
Detective, says the secretary. You asked about the students.
They hate Mr. Fletcher. They say he punishes them for
every mistake.
Well, students normally don't like teachers, do they?
Fletcher is worse, says Cliff. He's a dinosaur. I think
he hits the boys sometimes, but I can't prove it.
Smith nods. I'm sure it's nothing. Back in the courtyard,
Smith stops by the workman,
who are still sitting and eating their lunch. Listen and
observe, West. I suppose you didn't
notice, but those two are having some sort of romantic
affair. Oh, well, yes, I did notice, sir.
You did? Good. I can teach you a few things,
I think, West. And Smith nods to the workman.
Should we speak to the students, sir? West asks as
they walk back to the car.
What for? Well, to see if they know anything. Smith
takes the tie from his pocket.
Their children, West, they can't even put a tie on.
Let's get back to the city.
And he throws the tie on the floor. West nods.
It's best to just nod. But there is something that
does not make sense. The hammering noise. They heard it
in the headmaster's office.
And they heard it in the corridor with Miss White
and Mr Cliff.
And he looks back at the workman, who were enjoying
a slow lunch. But if these men are not hammering.
Come on, West! Smith shouts. And West nods. Yes, it's
best to just nod. And somewhere in the dark,
Mr Fletcher stops hammering his foot against the new wall.
He is tired now. Very tired.
He tries to remember exactly what happened. He remembers hitting
that idiot of a boy Harris
because he made a mistake in the geometry class. He
remembers another boy telling him to stop,
then another boy, and another. And then they were all
on top of him. At first they only hit him.
But then he felt school ties being wrapped around his
hands and feet and mouth.
And they lifted him up and carried him to the
new wall which was nearly finished.
And they put him behind it in a deep, dark
corner when no one could see him.
And the light disappeared as they put the last bricks
in place.
He tried desperately to shout. But he could not. And
he tried to move. But he could not.
And for a while he thought that he would die
in the deep, dark corner behind the wall.
But everything will be okay now, he knows. Because after
hours of struggling, his foot is now
finally free to move. And the police will be here
soon. He is sure. And they will hear.
So he continues to hammer his foot against the wall.
And he hopes that someone hears him soon.
The Poachers
My God, just look at that, Junior. Owen says with
a smile and he points to the valley and
green forest below them. Abutru wherean forest, what a beauty,
Alad. And he looks to his son,
Owen Junior. And he wants to see a smile on
the boy's pale face. But like always,
there's nothing but disinterest. We saw it last year, Junior
says.
It just looks the same. The same? Well, I suppose,
but look at its son. Look at how beautiful it
is.
Can there be a finer place in Wales? I don't
think so. But Junior only shrugs.
Owen shakes his head. He remembers when he came here
with his father to poach a few rabbits as a
child. He loved the walk up from the town of
Sennybridge. He loved the hours of walking and
hunting in the forests and valley. But not Junior. Junior
said that to walk there was stupid because
they had a car. And despite all of Owen's arguments,
the teenager did not change his mind.
Owen looks back at the car and hopes that no
one can see it from the main road. He lifts
the two
gunbags onto his shoulder and starts to walk.
Come on, son. This is going to be great fun,
he says. And Junior follows him but says nothing.
The forest is alive with life. It's the second week
of April and spring is certainly here.
The grass below their feet is green and fresh. The
trees are heavy with leaves and the air smells
so good that Owen forgets about Junior's mood. Smell that,
son. Good, eh? That's the scent of life,
the scent of the real whales. Junior lifts his head.
I can't smell anything.
What? The flowers, the trees, spring. Oh, that. And the
boy pulls something out of his pocket
and Owen sees that it's his MP3 player.
Whoa, whoa, whoa. He says, wait a minute, son. You
don't need that today.
What? But I want to listen to my music. Music?
Listen to the forest lad. Listen to the birds in
the wind.
No, you don't need that today. He repeats and he
takes the MP3 player from the boy's hands.
And he tries to avoid the angry look in the
boy's dark eyes.
Dark eyes, just like his mothers. And dark hair, too.
Just like his mothers.
Owen is tall and fair, with blue eyes and a
healthy complexion from years of work and activity
outside. Junior is short for his age. Short and thin
with a pale and unhealthy complexion from
hours of playing his computer games and watching television.
When Owen was a boy of fourteen, he played rugby
or football every day. He ran to the
school in the village just for fun. And he spent
every Sunday in the forests with his dad.
Junior does not like sports. He does not run. And
the last time he came to the forest with Owen,
he said that it was too cold and that the
forest was boring.
But Owen does not like to think about that too
much.
His wife, Rhea, is a good woman and pretty, too.
But sometimes he cannot help but look at
Junior and wonder. So he tries not to think about
it. Rhea says that it's just his age
and that all teenage boys prefer computer games and television
to walks in the forest.
And yes, the last time they came to the forest
it was a bit cold and they had nothing to
do.
But not this time. No, this time the sun is
high and hot. And this time Owen has his old
guns
over his shoulder. And he remembers the way that Junior's
expressionless face changed when he
saw them the night before. These were your grandad's guns,
he said to him in the kitchen,
and one day they can be yours if you want.
Really? And I can shoot things? Animals and things?
Of course, lad. But I need to show you how
first. But I know how. You do?
Yeah, I saw how in films and on television. Oh,
in laughed. Oh, well, I need to show you
how to do it safely. So we need to go
up to the old Abattrawaran forest. And Owen knew the
boy
was interested then. And for the first time in a
long time he thought that maybe there was
something they could do together. Father and son, the way
it should be. But now, in the forest,
he's not so sure. The boy looks bored already. And
he's not looking at the gun bags with interest
anymore. Well, maybe when he gets to shoot one. Soon
they are deep in the forest. And Owen finds
a small clearing. He puts the guns next to a
tree and takes them out of the bags carefully.
And yes, there is the interest in the boy's eyes.
So what can we shoot? Junior asks.
At this time of year we want to look for
rabbit's son. But if we can get a hair,
even better. What about deer? Can we shoot them? Deer?
No, son. They're too big. We don't want
to carry a deer back to the car. Someone might
see us. So? And Owen realises that the boy does
not understand what poaching is. Well, you see, really, we
aren't supposed to be here.
What? Junior says, a scared look in his eyes. Why
not? Well, to some people, shooting here is
illegal. They call it poaching. Which people? Well, the police,
for example, and the forestry
commission. Junior looks around the forest. You mean it's a
crime? It's illegal. Owen thinks
about what to say. Well, it is, son. But only
like downloading films for free.
That's a crime. That's illegal. But you still do that,
don't you?
Well, this is just like that. No one gets hurt.
We take one or two rabbits home and we have
a
little fun. That's okay, isn't it? Junior nods. I suppose
so. But what if someone sees us?
Ah, good question, son. Now, not many people come to
this side of the forest at this time of the
year. But if you see someone, you just put the
gun down gently in a bush or under some leaves.
Remember to do it nice and gently and to say
hello. If you have no gun, then there's no problem.
We can come back for the gun another day. Okay?
So remember, if you see or hear someone,
Junior looks a bit happier now. And for 20 minutes,
Owen talks to him about how to hold the gun
and how to walk with it. While his son listens
carefully and asks sensible questions that show
a real interest. For the first time in many years,
Owen and Junior seem to be exactly what they are,
father and son. And Owen notices that the boy actually
looks a little bit like him after all.
And that he also smiles sometimes. Sure, he likes films
and television and not sports.
That maybe this can be their thing. It doesn't have
to be every weekend if Junior doesn't want to.
But occasionally, then maybe in a few years, they can
start to go for a pint like Owen and his
father
did. Right then, son, he says, feeling extremely happy and
enjoying the excitement in the boy's
eyes. Now, I'm going to load the guns, then we
can follow the path there into the forest.
Do you remember the rules about the gun, son? Yes,
dad. Keep the gun pointed down to the ground
unless I see a rabbit. Never point the gun at
you or anyone else. Keep to your left, but not
directly behind you. Don't shoot in us. I can clearly
see that there's no one near the target.
And don't forget there are two shots and that I
should empty the gun before I give it back to
you.
Exactly, says Owen. And he feels full of pride and
thinks what a wonderful day this is,
out in the beauty of the Welsh countryside with his
son, and for a while they walk.
And he's happy about how carefully Junior holds the gun
and how he listens and does exactly what
he should. But then they reach another clearing and they
hear something behind the trees.
Dad, Junior whispers, and he looks scared. What's that noise?
Is it the police?
And Owen signals him to be quiet. He tries to
see through the trees, but he cannot.
He thinks there is someone or something moving. And it's
big, bigger than a rabbit or a hair,
but he does not think it can be a person.
He never sees people up here at this time of
year.
In the summer maybe, but not now. Could it be
a park ranger from the Forestry Commission?
Did someone see the car parked in the trees and
called the police? There is a snap from behind
the trees, and Owen thinks that maybe he should put
his gun down in a bush nice and carefully
like he told Junior to do. Behind him he can
hear Junior, who sounds like he is very scared.
But then Owen sees what is behind the trees. Brown
hair, big gentle eyes. He laughs and turns
back to Junior to tell him to stay calm. But
before he can do this, Junior, who does not know
what is making the noise, remembers his dad's words. If
you have no gun, then there's no problem.
But he does not remember the other words. Put it
down gently. Owen sees the boy throw the
gun and tries to shout that it's just a deer,
but it's too late. There is a loud bang.
Owen feels an incredible pain in his behind, and he
screams and falls to the floor.
As he lies there, shouting and screaming and trying to
pull the pieces of shot from his skin,
he looks up at the beautiful blue sky and green
trees and magnificent forest.
And he thinks that maybe next time they should just
go to the cinema instead.
Or maybe play a computer game or watch television.
The card chalk.
Are you sitting comfortably? Good. I want to tell you
a little story that I know.
Now it's not a very nice story, and I can't
promise you that there will be a very happy ending.
But it's a true story. And that's something that's very
important to me.
And I want you to remember that. Yeah, you need
to remember that the truth is important to me.
And you know what? It's something that's very important to
you too. Or it should be.
So relax a little and listen. See, there was once
a young man called Jimmy Lane,
an Englishman from the great city of London. Well, Jimmy
was a nobody in many ways.
You know what I mean when I say a nobody.
I mean, Jimmy wasn't rich, and he wasn't too
bright, you know? Not very clever, really. And he wasn't
a funny guy, and he didn't have much luck
with the ladies. I know all this to be true.
I know it because I can read people. And I
could
see all this when I look to Jimmy Lane. However,
Jimmy had a talent, a skill, an ability.
You see, Jimmy could play cards. Poker, Blackjack, Rummy, you
name the game, and Jimmy could play it.
Though he especially liked poker. With a deck of cards
in his hands, Jimmy was like a magician.
He could cut and shuffle the deck like he had
eight arms instead of two.
And he could remember every card he saw in a
split second and could use his fingers and little
tricks to put the cards where he wanted them in
the deck. Oh boy, what a talent. What a skill
Jimmy
had. And he had something else too. He had a
choice, a choice about what to do with this talent.
You see, there are two things you can do with
a talent like that. You can either play the game
right. You play it straight. This way you enter the
competitions. You play your best.
And you play by the rules. Then slowly you win
respect. And slowly you make a name for yourself.
Or there's the other thing you can do. You can
cheat. Do you know what I mean when I say
cheat?
I mean you use the little tricks, the fast fingers,
and the good memory. But you use it to break
the
rules of the game. And do you know what choice
Jimmy Lane made? You got it. He decided to cheat.
He decided to come to the biggest, richest, most important
gambling city in the world.
And he decided to cheat. That's right. He couldn't wait.
He wanted everything now. He wanted money.
He wanted to be famous and he wanted respect. So
yeah, he came here to Las Vegas.
Vegas. Wow. What a city. The lights, the music, the
atmosphere. And Jimmy thought he could take it
all. Huh. What a kid. What a dumb, stupid kid.
You see, you don't take from Las Vegas.
Vegas takes from you. But Jimmy, poor, stupid Jimmy, didn't
know that. So he found a casino,
a real casino. One of the best in the city.
And he thought he could do it quickly.
Play the game, get the money, and run before anyone
knew he was there. But he picked the wrong casino.
He picked my casino. That was a bad decision. But
worse than that was his next decision.
That was when he decided he was good enough and
clever enough and lucky enough to play
at my table. To enter my golden chip competition. A
competition where only the best of the best
get to play. How he made the money to enter,
I don't know. I think he probably cheated to get
that too. But he entered my competition and he used
his tricks and his fast fingers and he won
every game until it came to the final. Hank wins,
stops talking and puts his cigar back in his mouth.
He looks calm. Happy almost. But there is something very
dangerous about Hank win when
he looks calm and happy. Some people say that the
reason his casino is called shark pool
is because Hank looks a little like a shark. He
always wears a gray suit. He always walks in a
slow manner. And his eyes are always cold and dark.
But maybe there's another reason for the name
of the casino. The truth Jimmy. And Hank throws the
end of the cigar into the pool in front of
him.
It is night time. And around the roof of the
30 floor casino and hotel,
the city of Las Vegas is alive with color. There
are people everywhere. But here on the roof there
are only four people. There is Hank win and his
assistants and bodyguards Kenny and Clive.
Who stand patiently and listen to his speech. And there
is Jimmy Lane. Jimmy Lane does not stand.
Jimmy Lane cannot stand. His hands are tied. His legs
are tied. And his mouth is gagged.
And there is blood on Jimmy Lane. Small cuts on
his arms and chest. And he's naked apart from his
trousers.
Now I'm not a cruel man Jimmy. I'm really not.
I'm a businessman, not a gangster.
But this city is cruel Jimmy. And sometimes I have
to do things to protect my business.
Do you understand that Jimmy? Do you know how many
kids like you come into my casino?
No? Hundreds. Thousands. They all think they can win. They
all think they can cheat and beat the casino.
And Jimmy Lane shakes his head and tries to say
something. And his blue eyes are wet.
Wait a moment Jimmy. Wait one moment. Hank says and
he puts his hand on Jimmy's head.
And Jimmy tries to move away. I don't want you
to say anything stupid Jimmy.
Because this is your last chance. He looks across the
pool to his assistant.
When did they last eat Clive? Last week Mr. When.
You remember the Mexican? The one stealing from the bar?
Ah yes. A week. Did you hear that Jimmy? So
before I take this gag out of your mouth.
And before you think about saying something stupid again. Think
about this.
Did you really not think that we were watching you?
We knew you were cheating.
We knew you were using your little tricks.
The only reason you got to the final table to
my table Jimmy is because I let you.
And Hank takes Jimmy's face in his hands.
The truth Jimmy. I want the truth. It's very important
to me. And right now it's very important to you.
And he takes the gag from Jimmy's mouth. For a
moment Jimmy is silent.
Then he shouts as loud as he can.
Help me. Somebody we're on the roof. Help me.
And for a moment Hank is silent. Then he laughs.
And the two assistants laugh.
And then the back of Hank's hand slaps Jimmy's face
hard.
Oh Jimmy you really are a stupid kid. We're miles
up above one of the loudest cities in the world.
No one can hear you. No one but me and
the boys.
So Jimmy. One last chance. Tell me. Tell me the
truth.
And Jimmy looks at the pool and the clear water.
And he nods.
Okay okay you're right Mr. Win. Everything you say about
me is right. I was a nobody.
I was never rich. I was never too clever. But
I can play cards.
I started playing when I was seven or eight with
friends at school online in local competitions.
And I'm good. I mean I'm really good. And yeah
that's why I came here. I wanted to win.
I wanted the respect you talked about. Is that a
crime? Is that wrong?
Hank slaps him again. No Jimmy but cheating in my
casino is.
I didn't cheat. Jimmy shouts and he's angry now. I
never cheat.
You can hit me or you can try to scare
me but I never cheat. Hank Win laughs.
Ha ha. Scare you. You think we want to scare
you.
Clive let them out. He says.
Clive nods and pushes a button on the control panel
next to the pool.
Below the water a metal door slides open. For a
moment there is nothing.
But then two long gray shapes appear in the clear
water.
And Jimmy starts to shout again.
You cheated Jimmy. Four aces?
I know you put those cards in. I don't know
how but I know.
No Mr. Win. I didn't. I promise. I didn't. I
don't cheat. I never cheat.
For a moment Hank Win stops and maybe there's a
second where he believes poor Jimmy Lane.
But then the second is over and he kicks Jimmy
in the back and Jimmy falls into the pool with
a
screen. Hank Win does not stop to watch what happens
next. He never does. You see he's not a
cruel man but he sometimes has to do cruel things.
Come on. He says to Clive and Kenny and they
move
back to the stairs. But Mr. Win how did you
know he cheated? We didn't see anything on the cameras.
Clive asks. Hank shakes his head.
Idiot. I always take the aces out of the pack
and make sure that I get the kings.
He says and he goes back into the casino to
play another game.
But for a moment Clive and Kenny wait. Stepping backwards
so that the waves caused by the feeding
frenzy do not get at them. For a moment Clive
is silent. Then he slowly says something as if he
what he's saying. I changed the pack of cards before
the last game.
I never told Mr. Win. You mean Clive nods. The
aces were in the pack and for a little while
more they wait until the surface of the pool is
calm again. I guess he was telling the truth then
and they shut the door on what remains of Jimmy
Lane.
The Tube
The air of the tube platform is hot and dry
and the lights weak and unnatural. Sarah considers
sitting in one of the seats by the wall of
the tunnel. But she's so tired that she thinks that
maybe she'll fall asleep if she rests. So she stands
and she looks around at her fellow commuters
and other passengers. 20 tired faces. Some talking but most
are silent and waiting like her.
She looks at the electronic clock. It is 7.36.
Her train should be here in two minutes.
For a moment she thinks about how quiet the platform
is and how normally she has to fight to get
on
the train in the evening. But there will be no
fighting today. The few people that are here
look half dead, exhausted from a long day at work
and made passive by the slow journey home.
Home. Sarah thinks about her cozy sofa and the Chinese
takeaway she will eat while watching TV.
She can get it as she passes the restaurant, buy
a bottle of wine from the local shop and be
in
bed by 10 o'clock. It is a comforting but
also rather depressing thought. But that's life.
Work. Eat. Sleep. She hears the train in the dark
tunnel and tells herself to wake up
and to focus for another 40 minutes. The 40 minutes
from Liverpool Street to North Acton.
The train speeds out of the tunnel and she enjoys
the feeling of the wind in her dark brown hair.
As it stops she sees her reflection in the mirror
of the carriage.
I look like death. She thinks.
The doors of the carriage is open. A few people
get off and Sarah and the commuters get on.
Inside the carriage it's even hotter than on the platform.
But it's almost empty too.
She finds a seat and sits down. Do not fall
asleep. She tells herself.
She looks around the carriage. There are only eight other
people there.
A young couple holding hands and talking quietly on the
seat opposite her.
Two businessmen a few seats to her right. An old
lady two seats to her left.
A mother and son at the far end of the
carriage. And a strange looking man in a coat in
the corner.
A strange man. Is he strange? Or are you just
being silly? She looks at him.
She cannot see his face because he has the hood
of his sports jacket up.
But he seems to be asleep. And there's something about
his face that she does not like.
He has a short beard and pale unhealthy skin. And
she thinks that his eyes are probably unkind.
The train starts. And she shakes her head.
You are an idiot. She tells herself and pulls a
book out of her bag.
On the front there's a picture of a man with
a short beard and pale skin and unkind eyes.
She almost laughs.
You need to stop reading this rubbish. You're losing your
mind.
She tells herself.
The man in the corner is probably just a normal
guy and not some horrible character from one of her
thrillers.
For ten minutes, she reads her crime novel. She starts
to feel better.
More relaxed and less concerned about the reason why the
tube is so quiet today.
Then the train stops at another station.
There are loud voices on the platform and Sarah knows
why.
The doors slide open and ten or twelve students from
Chancery High School enter the carriage.
The old woman two seats away from her does not
look happy and she moves to sit in the seat
next to Sarah.
Do you mind, dear?
No, of course not, Sarah says and smiles.
The poor old woman must not feel too comfortable next
to the noisy kids.
But Sarah knows that they're okay.
She can spot the bad kids from a mile away.
She is, after all, a teacher.
No, these kids are okay, but they are loud and
it's impossible for Sarah not to hear their conversation.
And when she hears the topic that they are talking
about, she suddenly feels cold.
Yeah, he killed another one, didn't he?
Last Friday they reckon?
The tallest of the kids says,
I know, sick, isn't it?
I mean, how many is that now?
asks another.
Six?
No, man, seven.
Is it?
Man, you know, the sick thing is that no one
knows who it is.
I don't know if it's a man, a woman, some
kid, you get me?
No, the sick thing is the way he kills them.
He uses something strange, not a knife, but something long
and thin,
and he stabs them again and again and they just
bleed and bleed.
Yeah, but the weird thing is none of them try
to fight, says the tall kid.
How do you know that?
Because the newspapers said it.
They said none of the victims looked like they tried
to fight.
They just, I don't know, let this guy stab them
again and again.
And now there is silence in the carriage.
And Sarah sees that everyone is listening to the conversation,
but she does not want to listen.
And she takes her MP3 player from her bag and
puts her headphones in.
She does not want to think about their conversation or
the horrible reason why the
tube is so quiet.
She does not want to think about the stories in
the newspapers.
She does not want to think about what the police
are calling the tube murders.
She closes her eyes and thinks about her sofa.
Her Chinese takeaway and her bed.
After a few more minutes, she feels the train stop
and she is aware of the kids getting off.
Just listen to the music, she tells herself, relax and
rest.
But don't sleep.
Don't?
But she is exhausted and her head begins to drop.
And she feels herself falling asleep.
And she dreams about dark tunnels and strange men watching
her.
Then she feels a sharp pain in her arm.
And she almost screams.
She looks to see what the pain is and pulls
her headphones from her ears.
I'm sorry, dear, the old woman says.
And Sarah sees that the woman's cloth bag is touching
her arm.
Did I wake you up?
It must be something in my bag.
I have all my knitting things in here.
The old woman looks very upset and apologetic.
It's okay, Sarah says and smiles.
I was just surprised.
Oh, you poor thing.
You look exhausted.
I'll move my bags so you can sleep.
It's okay.
I don't want to sleep.
No, you relax.
The old woman says.
And Sarah thinks the old lady has a kind smile.
Sarah nods and is about to put her headphones back
in her ears when she feels someone watching her.
And she looks at the corner of the carriage.
The strange man.
The man who looks like the evil character from her
thriller.
His eyes are open now.
And they are watching her.
She feels a cold shiver move over her body.
And suddenly she thinks that she feels a little ill.
Is he watching her?
She looks again.
And yes, his hood is still covering his face,
but she is sure that his eyes are focused on
her.
She tries to stay calm.
There are still several people in the carriage.
The young couple is still there and the two businessmen.
And the next station is North Acton, her station.
You just need to get home.
She tells herself.
And she feels the train slow down.
And she knows she must get up.
Is this your stop, dear?
The old woman asks.
Sarah nods.
Oh, good.
You're nearly home.
Nearly time to get some sleep.
Sarah tries to smile.
Are you okay, dear?
You look a little pale.
Yes, just tired.
You should put some water on your face.
You'll feel better.
Sarah nods.
I will, thank you.
I will, she thinks.
But only if the strange man stays on the train.
If he follows me, I will shout and scream for
help.
She stands up and looks in the corner of the
carriage one more time.
But it looks like the man is asleep.
Go, go now, she tells herself.
The door's open and she quickly walks through them.
For a few seconds, she walks and then turns back
to look at the tube train.
No one is there.
No one gets off, apart from her, she is sure.
The train starts again and she relaxes a little.
The platform at North Acton is quiet.
But it always is at this time of the evening.
She can see the stairs to the street and she
wants to walk to them.
But she feels so weak.
She decides to go into the station toilets.
All she needs is a little water.
She enters the ladies and stands in front of the
mirror.
Her arm hurts.
So she takes her jacket off.
And in the mirror, she can see a small drop
of blood on her skin.
It's okay, dear.
You'll feel better in a moment.
I gave you a little medicine to help you sleep.
Sarah jumps at the sound of the voice.
And in the mirror, she sees the reflection of the
old woman.
What?
She tries to say, but then she falls to the
floor.
Help me, she says, in a weak voice.
The old woman smiles.
But it is a horrible smile.
I am helping you, dear.
You poor thing.
So tired, so exhausted.
You can't live like that.
But it's okay now.
I'm here to help you.
And the old woman takes a long, thin knitting needle
from her bag.
And Sarah remembers what the kid said on the tube.
He uses something strange.
Not a knife, but something long and thin.
And he stabs them again and again.
And they just bleed and bleed.
She tries to scream.
But it is too late.
I'll feed her her by audible.